The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures and Mines, by
Andrew Ure

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: A Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures and Mines
       containing a clear exposition of their principles and practice

Author: Andrew Ure

Release Date: January 1, 2014 [EBook #44562]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DICTIONARY OF ARTS, MFRS, MINES ***




Produced by Malcolm Farmer, Harry Lame and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







Transcriber's Notes

Italicised texts in the original work have been transcribed between
_underscores_; small capitals have been transcribed as CAPITALS. Greek
has been transcribed as for example [pi] for single letters and [Greek:
lithos] for words. The oe-ligatures are represented by [OE] and [oe].
Super- and subscript x are transcribed as ^{x} and _{x}, respectively.
[|O] and [O|] represent a solid and an open circle with a vertical line,
respectively. [sqrt] and [cbrt] represent square and cube roots. [S]
represents a letter S rotated 90 degrees, [V] an upside-down V. The
symbols for proportion and therefore have been transcribed as [::] and
[:.]. In ([26 x 2] + [40 x 2]) the original work has a horizontal line
over the numbers between the square brackets.

More Transcriber's notes may be found at the end of this text.




  A
  DICTIONARY
  OF
  ARTS, MANUFACTURES,
  AND
  MINES:
  CONTAINING
  A CLEAR EXPOSITION OF THEIR PRINCIPLES
  AND PRACTICE.

  BY

  ANDREW URE, M.D.
  F.R.S. M.G.S. M.A.S. LOND.; M. ACAD. N.S. PHILAD.; S. PH. SOC. N.
  GERM. HANOV.; MULII. ETC. ETC.

  ILLUSTRATED WITH TWELVE HUNDRED AND FORTY
  ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD.

  Second Edition.

  LONDON:
  PRINTED FOR
  LONGMAN, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMANS,
  PATERNOSTER-ROW.

  1840.


  LONDON:
  Printed by A. SPOTTISWOODE,
  New-Street-Square.




PREFACE.


It is the business of operative industry to produce, transform, and
distribute all such material objects as are suited to satisfy the wants
of mankind. The primary production of these objects is assigned to the
husbandman, the fisherman, and the miner; their transformation to the
manufacturer and artisan; and their distribution to the engineer,
shipwright, and sailor.[1] The unworked or raw materials are
derived,--1. from the organic processes of vegetables and animals,
conducted either without or with the fostering care of man; 2. from the
boundless stores of mineral and metallic wealth, arranged upon or within
the surface of the earth by the benignant Parent of our being, in the
fittest condition to exercise our physical and intellectual powers in
turning them to the uses of life.

  [1] For correct and copious information upon _agricultural_
  production, I have great pleasure in referring my readers to Mr.
  Loudon's elaborate _Encyclopedias of Agriculture, Gardening, and
  Plants_; and for _mercantile_ production and distribution, to Mr.
  M'Culloch's excellent _Dictionary of Commerce and Commercial
  Navigation_.

The task which I have undertaken in the present work, is to describe and
explain the transformations of these primary materials, by mechanical
and chemical agencies, into general objects of exchangeable value;
leaving, on the one hand, to the mechanical engineer, that of
investigating the motive powers of transformation and transport; and, on
the other hand, to the handicraftsman, that of tracing their
modifications into objects of special or local demand. Contemplated in
this view, an art or manufacture may be defined to be that species of
industry which effects a certain change in a substance, to suit it for
the general market, by combining its parts in a new order and form,
through mechanical or chemical means. Iron will serve the purpose of
illustrating the nature of the distinctions here laid down, between
mechanical engineering; arts and manufactures; and handicraft trades.
The engineer perforates the ground with a shaft, or a drift, to the
level of the ore, erects the pumps for drainage, the ventilating, and
hoisting apparatus, along with the requisite steam or water power; he
constructs the roads, the bridges, canals, railways, harbours, docks,
cranes, &c., subservient to the transport of the ore and metal; he
mounts the steam or water power, and bellows for working the
blast-furnaces, the forges, and the cupolas; his principal end and aim
on all occasions being to overcome the forces of inertia, gravity, and
cohesion. The ores extracted and sorted by the miner, and transported by
the engineer to the smelting station, are there skilfully blended by the
iron-master (manufacturer), who treats them in a furnace appropriately
constructed, along with their due proportions of flux and fuel, whereby
he reduces them to cast iron of certain quality, which he runs off at
the right periods into rough pigs or regular moulds; he then transforms
this crude metal, by mechanical and chemical agencies, into bar and
plate iron of various sizes and shapes, fit for the general market; he
finally converts the best of the bars into steel, by the cementation
furnace, the forge, and the tilt-hammer; or the best of the plates into
tin-plate. When farther worked by definite and nearly uniform processes
into objects of very general demand in all civilized countries, these
iron and steel bars still belong to the domain of manufactures; as, for
example, when made into anchors, chain-cables, files, nails, needles,
wire, &c.; but when the iron is fashioned, into ever varying and
capricious forms, they belong either to the general business of the
founder and cutler, or to the particular calling of some handicraft, as
the locksmith, gratesmith, coachsmith, gunsmith, tinman, &c.

Such are the principles which have served to guide me in selecting
articles for the present volume. By them, as a clue, I have endeavoured
to hold a steady course through the vast and otherwise perplexing
labyrinth of arts, manufactures, and mines; avoiding alike engineering
and mechanical arts, which cause no change in the texture or
constitution of matter,--and handicraft operations, which are multiform,
capricious, and hardly susceptible of scientific investigation. In fact,
had such topics been introduced into the volume, it would have presented
a miscellaneous farrago of incongruous articles, too numerous to allow
of their being expounded in a manner either interesting or instructive
to the manufacturer and the metallurgist. I readily acknowledge,
however, that I have not been able to adhere always so rigorously as I
could have wished to the above rule of selection; having been
constrained by intelligent and influential friends to introduce a few
articles which I would gladly have left to the mechanical engineer. Of
these _Printing_ is one, which, having had no provision made for it in
my original plan, was too hastily compiled to admit of my describing,
with suitable figures, the flat-printing automatic machine of Mr.
Spottiswoode, wherewith the pages of this volume were worked off; a
mechanism which I regard as the most elegant, precise, and productive,
hitherto employed to execute the best style of letter press.

I have embodied in this work the results of my long experience as a
Professor of Practical Science. Since the year 1805, when I entered at
an early age upon the arduous task of conducting the schools of
chemistry and manufactures in the Andersonian Institution, up to the
present day, I have been assiduously engaged in the study and
improvement of most of the chemical and many of the mechanical arts.
Consulted professionally by proprietors of factories, workshops, and
mines, of various descriptions, both in this country and abroad,
concerning derangements in their operations, or defects in their
products, I have enjoyed peculiar opportunities of becoming familiar
with their minutest details, and have frequently had the good fortune to
rectify what was amiss, or to supply what was wanting. Of the stores of
information thus acquired, I have availed myself on the present
occasion; careful, meanwhile, to neglect no means of knowledge which my
extensive intercourse with foreign nations affords.

I therefore humbly hope that this work will prove a valuable
contribution to the literature of science, serving--

_In the first place_, to instruct the Manufacturer, Metallurgist, and
Tradesman, in the principles of their respective processes, so as to
render them in reality the masters of their business, and to emancipate
them from a state of bondage to operatives, too commonly the slaves of
blind prejudice and vicious routine.

_Secondly_, to afford to Merchants, Brokers, Drysalters, Druggists, and
Officers of the Revenue, characteristic descriptions of the commodities
which pass through their hands.

_Thirdly_, by exhibiting some of the finest developments of chemistry
and physics, to lay open an excellent practical school to students of
these kindred sciences.

_Fourthly_, to teach Capitalists, who may be desirous of placing their
funds in some productive bank of industry, to select judiciously among
plausible claimants.

_Fifthly_, to enable Gentlemen of the Law to become well acquainted with
the nature of those patent schemes which are so apt to give rise to
litigation.

_Sixthly_, to present to our Legislators such a clear exposition of our
staple manufactures, as may dissuade them from enacting laws which
obstruct industry, or cherish one branch of it to the injury of many
others: and,

_Lastly_, to give the General Reader, intent chiefly on intellectual
cultivation, a view of many of the noblest achievements of science, in
effecting those grand transformations of matter to which Great Britain
owes her paramount wealth, rank, and power among the kingdoms.

The latest statistics of every important object of manufacture is given,
from the best, and, usually, from official authority, at the end of each
article.[2]

  [2] The statistics of agriculture, trade, and manufactures is ably and
  fully discussed in Mr. M'Culloch's _Dictionary_ already referred to.

The following summary of our manufactures is extracted from Mr.
Macqueen's _General Statistics of the British Empire_, published in
1836. It shows the amount of capital embarked in the various
departments of manufacturing industry, and of the returns of that
capital:--

  +----------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
  |                                  |  Capital. |  Produce. |
  |                                  +-----------+-----------+
  |                                  |    _L_    |    _L_    |
  |Cotton manufactures               | 40,973,872| 52,513,586|
  |Woollen  ditto                    | 36,000,000| 44,250,000|
  |Silk     ditto                    |  8,000,000| 10,000,000|
  |Linen    ditto                    | 12,000,000| 15,421,186|
  |Leather  ditto                    | 13,000,000| 16,000,000|
  |Iron     ditto, to making pig iron| 10,000,000|  7,098,000|
  |Ditto, hardware, cutlery, &c.     | 25,000,000| 31,072,600|
  |Copper and brass ditto            |  3,600,000|  4,673,186|
  |China, glass, &c.                 |  8,600,000| 10,892,794|
  |Paper, furniture, books, &c.      | 10,000,000| 14,000,000|
  |Spirits (British), ales, soap, &c.| 37,600,000| 47,163,847|
  |Sundries additional               |           |  9,000,000|
  |                                  +-----------+-----------+
  |            Totals                |204,773,872|262,085,199|
  +----------------------------------+-----------+-----------+

In consequence of an arrangement with Mr. William Newton, patent agent,
and proprietor of the _London Journal of Arts, Sciences, and
Manufactures_, I have been permitted to enrich this Dictionary with many
interesting descriptions and illustrative figures of modern patent
inventions and improvements, which I could not otherwise have presented
to my readers. Mr. Newton has lately enhanced the value of his Journal
by annexing to it a _catalogue raisonnee_, entitled "An Analytical Index
to the Subjects contained in the 23 Volumes," which constitute the first
and second series. The subsequent 13 volumes, of his Conjoined Series,
are of still superior interest; and the whole form a vast storehouse of
Mechanical and Chemical Invention.

Although I am conscious of having used much diligence for many years in
collecting information for this work, from every quarter within my
reach, the utmost pains in preparing it for publication, and incessant
vigilance during its passage through the press, yet I am fully aware
that it must contain several errors and defects. These I shall study to
rectify, should the Public deem this volume worthy of a supplement. In
this hope, I earnestly solicit the suggestions of my readers; trusting
that ere long our Post Office system will cease to be such an obstacle
as it has long been to the collection and diffusion of useful knowledge,
and a tax upon science which the remuneration of its literature cannot
by any means bear.

Since this book is not a Methodical Treatise, but a Dictionary, one
extensive subject may be necessarily dispersed through many articles.
Thus, for example, information upon the manufacture of _Colours_ will be
found under azure; black pigment; bone-black; bronze; brown dye;
calico-printing; carmine; carthamus; chromium; cochineal; crayons;
dyeing; enamels; gold; gilding; gamboge; gray dye; green dye; green
paints; indigo; kermes; lac dye; lakes; madder; massicot; mercury,
periodide of; Naples yellow; orange dye; orpiment; paints, grinding of;
ochres; paper-hangings; pastes; pearl white; Persian berries; pottery
pigments; Prussian blue; purple of Cassius; red lead; rouge; Scheele's
green; Schweinfurth green; stained glass; terra di Sienna; ultramarine;
umber; verditer; vermilion; vitrifiable colours, weld, white lead; woad;
yellow, king's.

A casual consulter of the Dictionary, who did not advert to this
distribution, might surmise it to be most deficient, where it is in
reality most copious.

The elaborate and costly Encyclopedias, and Dictionaries of Arts, which
have appeared from time to time in this country, and abroad, have, for
the most part, treated of the mechanical manufactures, more fully and
correctly than of the chemical. The operations of the former are, in
fact, tolerably obvious and accessible to the inspection of the curious;
nor are they difficult to transfer into a book, with the aid of a
draughtsman, even by a person but moderately versed in their principles.
But those of the latter are not unfrequently involved in complicated
manipulations, and depend, for their success, upon a delicate play of
affinities, not to be understood without an operative familiarity with
the processes themselves. Having enjoyed the best opportunities of
studying the chemical arts upon the greatest scale in this kingdom and
on the Continent, I may venture, without the imputation of arrogance, to
claim for my work, in this respect, more precision and copiousness than
its predecessors possess. I have gone as far in describing several
curious processes, hitherto veiled in mystery, as I felt warranted,
without breach of confidence, to go; regarding it as a sacred duty never
to publish any secret whatever, without the consent of its proprietor.
During my numerous tours through the factory districts of Great Britain,
France, &c., many suggestions, however, have been presented to my mind,
which I am quite at liberty to communicate in private, or carry into
execution, in other districts too remote to excite injurious competition
against the original inventors. I am also possessed of many plans of
constructing manufactories, of which the limits of this volume did not
permit me to avail myself, but which I am ready to furnish, upon
moderate terms, to proper applicants. I conclude by pointing attention
to the very insecure tenure by which patents for chemical or
chemico-mechanical inventions are held; of which there is hardly one on
record which may not be readily evaded by a person skilled in the
resources of practical chemistry, or which could stand the ordeal of a
court of law directed by an experienced chemist. The specifications of
such patents stand in need of a thorough reform; being for the most part
not only discreditable and delusive to the patentees, but calculated to
involve them in one of the greatest of evils--a chancery suit.

  LONDON:
  13. Charlotte Street, Bedford Square,
  March 1. 1839.


DR. URE is preparing for publication, in one large volume, 8vo.,
CHEMISTRY IN THEORY AND PRACTICE; embodying a New System of Research, of
such facility and precision, as will enable chemical manufacturers of
every class, medical practitioners, metallurgists, farmers, merchants,
brokers, druggists, drysalters, officers of the revenue, as well as
general students, to analyze their respective objects in much less time
than is usually required at present by professional chemists. A
descriptive Index will be annexed for converting this systematic work
into a Dictionary of Chemical Science.




  A
  DICTIONARY
  OF
  ARTS, MANUFACTURES, AND MINES.


ABB-WOOL. Among clothiers, this term signifies the _woof_ or _weft_.


ACETATE. (_Acetate_, Fr.; _Essigsaeure_, Germ.) Any saline compound of
which the acetic is the acid constituent; as acetate of soda, of iron,
of copper, &c.


ACETATE OF ALUMINA, see RED LIQUOR and MORDANT; of COPPER, see COPPER;
of IRON, see IRON; of LEAD, see LEAD; of LIME, see PYROLIGNOUS ACID.


ACETIC ACID (_Acide Acetique_, Fr.; _Essigsaeure_, Germ.) is the name of
the sour principle which exists in vinegar. It occurs, ready formed, in
several products of the vegetable kingdom, and is generated during the
spontaneous fermentation of many vegetable and animal juices. The
_sambucus nigra_, or black elder, the _ph[oe]nix dactilifera_, and the
_rhus typhinus_ are plants which afford a notable quantity of vinegar.
It is found, likewise, in the sweat, urine, milk, and stomach of
animals. All infusions of animal or vegetable matters in water, when
exposed for some time to the air, at a moderate temperature, ferment
into vinegar; and most vegetables, when subjected to decomposition by
fire, give off condensable vapours of acetic acid. All liquids
containing alcohol are susceptible of passing into the state of vinegar;
but the pre-existence of alcohol is not necessary to this change, as we
learn from the acetification of vegetable soups, infusion of cabbage,
starch--paste, &c.

Vinegar may be distinguished into four varieties, according to the mode
of its production, though all of them are capable of being converted, by
chemical means, into one identical acetic acid. 1. Wine vinegar. 2. Malt
vinegar. 3. Sugar vinegar. 4. Wood vinegar, or pyrolignous acid.
Fermentation is the source of the acid in the first three varieties.
Here alcohol is first generated, and is next converted into vinegar by
the influence of the air at a genial temperature; a change which will be
investigated under FERMENTATION. But the conversion of spirit of wine
into acetic acid may be demonstrated by direct experiment. When the
vapour of alcohol is brought into contact in the atmosphere with the
black powder obtained by mixing muriate of platina, potash, and alcohol,
vinegar is rapidly formed at the expense of the alcohol. In Germany,
where crude alcohol bears a low price, the manufacture of vinegar has
been arranged upon that principle, which, as throwing some light on the
process of acetification, I shall briefly describe. See PLATINUM _for
the mode of preparing the above powder_.

Under a large case, which for experimental purposes may be made of
glass, several saucer-shaped dishes of pottery or wood are to be placed
in rows, upon shelves over each other, a few inches apart. A portion of
the black platina powder moistened being suspended over each dish, let
as much vinous spirits be put into them as the oxygen of the included
air shall be adequate to acidify. This quantity may be inferred from the
fact, that 1000 cubic inches of air can oxygenate 110 grains of absolute
alcohol, converting them into 122 grains of absolute acetic acid, and
64-1/2 grains of water.

The above simple apparatus is to be set in a light place (in sunshine,
if convenient), at a temperature of from 68 deg. to 86 deg. Fahr., and the
evaporation of the alcohol is to be promoted by hanging several leaves
of porous paper in the case, with their bottom edges dipped in the
spirit. In the course of a few minutes, a most interesting phenomenon
will be perceived. The mutual action of the platina and the alcohol will
be displayed by an increase of temperature, and a generation of acid
vapours, which, condensing on the sides of the glass-case, trickle in
streams to the bottom. This striking transformation continues till all
the oxygen of the air be consumed. If we wish, then, to renew the
process, we must open the case for a little, and replenish it with air.
With a box of 12 cubic feet in capacity, and with a provision of 7 or 8
ounces of the platina powder we can, in the course of a day, convert
one pound of alcohol into pure acetic acid, fit for every purpose,
culinary or chemical. With from 20 to 30 pounds of the platina powder
(which does not waste), we may transform, daily, nearly 300 pounds of
bad spirits into the finest vinegar. Though our revenue laws preclude
the adoption of this elegant process upon the manufacturing scale in
this country, it may be regarded as one of the greatest triumphs of
chemistry, where art has rivalled nature in one of her most mysterious
operations.

To readers acquainted with chemical symbols, the following numerical
representation of the conversion of alcohol into acetic acid may be
acceptable:--

  580.64 parts by weight of alcohol  = H^{12} C^{4} O^{2} consist of
   74.88                 of hydrogen = H^{12}
  305.76                 of carbon   = C^{4}
  200.00                 of oxygen   = O^{2}

If we combine with this mixture, 400 parts of oxygen = O^{4}, we have,--

  of water    = 337.44 = H^{6} O^{3}
  acetic acid = 643.20 = H^{6} C^{4} O^{3}

Hence, in this formation of vinegar, 100 parts by weight of alcohol take
68.89 parts of oxygen; and there are produced 58.11 parts of water, and
110.78 of acetic acid.

These beautiful experiments prove, that when in a mere mixture of
alcohol and water, under the influence of the atmospheric air and heat,
some vinegar comes to be formed after a considerable time, the same
formation of vinegar takes place in a similar, but more effective,
manner, when a ferment is present, which acts here in a somewhat
analogous way to the platina powder in the preceding case. Several
azotized substances serve as re-agents towards the acetous
fermentation,--such as vinegar ready-made, vinegar-yeast, or lees,
barley bread, leaven, beer barm, and similar vegetable matters, which
contain gluten. The best and purest ferment is, however, vinegar itself.
With this ferment we must conjoin, as an essential condition of
acetification, the free access of atmospheric air.

It is a well-known fact, that spirituous liquors, as weak brandy, wine,
and beer, &c., may be preserved for years in close vessels, without
undergoing the acetous fermentation, even when they repose upon a layer
of lees. It is equally well known, that these very liquors, if they
stand for some time in open vessels, become readily sour, especially if
exposed, also, to a somewhat high temperature. If we fill a flask with
common brandy, and subject it, without a stopper, to the influence of
air and warmth, the contained liquor may, at the end of many weeks,
discover no sensible acidity: if we add to the same brandy a ferment,
and stop the flask air-tight, everything will still remain unchanged;
but if we leave a portion of air in the flask, or leave it uncorked,
vinegar will soon make its appearance in the brandy.

If we investigate the nature of the air which remains over brandy in the
act of acetification, we shall find that it consists entirely of
carbonic acid and azote, the oxygen being absorbed and combined in the
acetic acid and water formed.

Since this absorption of oxygen from the air can take place only at the
surface of the fermenting liquors, we thus see the necessity and the
practical importance of amplifying that surface, in order to accelerate
and complete the acetification, by multiplying the points of contact
between the alcohol and the oxygen. The essence of the new German method
of rapid acetification depends upon this principle.

Temperature has also a remarkable influence on the formation of vinegar.
The acid fermentation proceeds very feebly in the cold, but takes an
accelerated pace as the heat is raised. It would even appear that
spirituous vapours brought by themselves in contact with atmospheric
air, without the aid of any ferment, are capable of being converted into
acetic acid, since it has happened in the rectification of brandy, in a
still furnished with a large capital and adopter pipe into which air was
allowed to enter, that vinegar made its appearance. Hence, warmth does
not seem to act as a promoter of the combination of alcohol with oxygen
in a merely chemical point of view, but it acts, so to speak,
physically. Over the warm liquor a stratum of spirit vapour appears to
float, which, coming there into conflict with the atmospherical oxygen,
probably causes the generation of some acetic acid, and thus accelerates
the operation, much more than by the mere contact of the oxygen with the
liquid surface.

When we expose any spirituous liquors, as wine, beer, &c., with the
requisite ferment, to the external air, at a temperature of from 64 deg. to
68 deg. Fahr., the fluid, however clear before, becomes soon turbid;
filamentous slimy particles begin to appear moving in the middle and on
the sides of the vessel, and then form a scum on the top of the liquor.
When this scum has acquired a certain thickness and consistence, it
falls in a sediment to the bottom. The Germans call it the vinegar
_mother_, as it serves to excite acetification in fresh liquors.
Meanwhile, the liquor has become warmer than the surrounding air, and
the vinegar process betrays itself by diffusing a peculiar aroma in the
apartment. Whenever all the alcohol present has been converted into
acetic acid, the liquor comes into a state of repose; its temperature
sinks to the pitch of the atmosphere; it becomes bright, and is the
article well known by its taste and smell under the name of vinegar.

Genuine wine or raisin vinegar differs from that formed either from
apples, or sugar, beer, &c., in containing wine-stone or tartar; by
which peculiarity it may be distinguished, except in those cases where
crude tartar has been artificially added to the other vinegars, as a
disguise. Barley-malt vinegar contains some phosphoric acid, in the
state of phosphate of lime or magnesia, derived from the grain.

After these general observations upon acetification, we shall now
proceed to describe the processes for manufacturing vinegar on the
commercial scale.

1. _Wine vinegar._--The first consideration with a vinegar maker is a
good fermenting room, in which the wines may be exposed to a steady
temperature, with an adequate supply of atmospherical air. As this air
is soon deprived of its oxygenous constituent, facilities ought to be
provided for a renewal of it by moderate ventilation. The air holes for
this purpose ought to be so contrived that they may be shut up when the
temperature begins to fall too low, or in windy weather. The best mode
of communicating the proper warmth to a chamber of this kind is by means
of fire-flues or hot water pipes, running along its floor at the sides
and ends, as in a hothouse; the fireplace being on the outside, so that
no dust may be created by it within. The flue is best made of bricks,
and may have a cross section of 10 or 12 inches by 15 deep. The soot
deposited, even when coals are burned, will find ample space in the
bottom of the flue, without interfering essentially with the draught,
for a very long period, if it be made of the above dimensions.
Low-roofed apartments are preferable to high ones; and those built with
thick walls, of imperfectly conducting materials, such as bricks, lined
with lath and plaster work. Should the chamber, however, have a high
ceiling, the fermenting tuns must be raised to a suitable height on
scaffolding, so as to benefit by the warmest air. Sometimes the vinegar
vessels are placed at different levels; in which case the upper ones
acetify their contents much sooner than the under, unless they are
emptied and filled alternately, which is a good plan.

Orleans is the place most famous for vinegars. The building there
destined to their manufacture is called a _vinaigrerie_, and is placed,
indifferently, either on the ground floor or the floor above it; but it
has always a southern exposure, to receive the influence of the
sunbeams. The vessels employed for carrying on the fermentation are
casks, called _mothers_. Formerly they were of a large capacity,
containing about 460 litres (115 gallons, Eng.); but at the present day
they are barrels of half that capacity, or somewhat less than an old
English hogshead. It is now known that the wine passes sooner into
vinegar the smaller the mass operated upon, the more extensive its
contact with the air, and the more genial its warmth. These casks were
formerly arranged in three ranks by means of massive scaffolding; they
are now set in four ranks, but they rest on much smaller rafters,
sustained by uprights, and can be packed closer together. The casks,
which are laid horizontally, are pierced at the upper surface of their
front end with two holes: one, to which the name of _eye_ is given, is
two inches in diameter; it serves for putting in the charge, and drawing
off the vinegar when it is made; the other hole is much smaller, and is
placed immediately alongside; it is merely an air hole, and is necessary
to allow the air to escape, because the funnel completely fills the
other hole in the act of filling the cask.

When new vessels are mounted in a vinegar work, they must be one third
filled with the best vinegar that can be procured, which becomes the
true _mother_ of the vinegar to be made; because it is upon this portion
that the wine to be acidified is successively added. At the ordinary
rate of work, they put at first upon the _mother_, which occupies one
third of the vessel, a _broc_ of 10 litres of red or white wine; eight
days afterwards they add a second _broc_; then a third, and a fourth,
always observing the same interval of time, 8 days. After this last
charge, they draw off about 40 litres of vinegar, and then recommence
the successive additions.

It is necessary that the vessel be always one third empty if we wish the
acetification to go on steadily; but as a portion of the tartar and the
lees forms and accumulates in the lower part of the cask, so as
eventually to counteract the fermentation, the time arrives when it is
requisite to interrupt it, in order to remove this residuum, by clearing
out all the contents. The whole materials must be renovated every 10
years; but the casks, if well made and repaired, will serve for 25
years.

We have mentioned a definite period at which the vinegar may be drawn
off; but that was on the supposition that the process had all the
success we could wish: there are circumstances, difficult to appreciate,
which modify its progress, as we shall presently show. We ought,
therefore, before discharging the vinegar, to test and see if the
fermentation has been complete. We proceed as follows: we plunge into
the liquor a white stick or rod, bent at one end, and then draw it out
in a horizontal direction: if it be covered with a white thick froth, to
which is given the name of _work_ (_travail_), we judge that the
operation is terminated; but if the work, instead of being white and
pearly, be red, the manufacturers regard the fermentation to be
unfinished, and they endeavour to make it advance, by adding fresh wine,
or by increasing the heat of the apartment.

It is not always easy to explain why the fermentation does not go on as
rapidly in one case as in another. There are even certain things which
seem at present to be entirely inexplicable. It happens sometimes, for
example, that although all the vessels have been equally charged, and
with the same wine, yet the fermentation does not form in the same
manner in the whole; it will move rapidly in some, be languid, or
altogether inert, in others. This is a very puzzling anomaly; which has
been ascribed to electrical and other obscure causes, because it is not
owing to want of heat, the casks in the warmest positions being
frequently in fault; nor to the timber of the cask. It, however,
paralyses the process so completely that the most expert vinegar makers
have nothing else for it, when this accident happens, than to empty
entirely what they call the lazy cask, and to fill it with their best
vinegar. The fermentation now begins, and proceeds as well in it as in
the others. See FERMENTATION.

We must here make an important remark, relatively to the temperature
which should prevail in the fermentation room. In many chemical works we
find it stated, that the heat should not exceed 18 deg. R., or 65 deg. Fahr.,
for fear of obtaining bad products. But the vinegar makers constantly
keep up the heat at from 24 deg. to 25 deg. R., 75 deg. to 77 deg. F.; when the
acetification advances much more rapidly, and the vinegar is equally
strong. The best proof of this heat not being too high is, that under
it, the vessels in the upper part of the room, work best and quickest.
In Orleans, cast-iron stoves and wood fuel are used for communicating
the requisite warmth.

Before pouring the wine into the _mothers_, it is clarified in the
following manner. There are tuns which can contain from 12 to 15 pieces
of wine. Their upper end has at its centre an opening of four or five
inches diameter, which may be closed afterwards with a wooden cover;
this opening is for the purpose of receiving a large funnel. The inside
of the tun is filled with chips of beechwood, well pressed down. The
wine is poured upon these chips, allowed to remain for some time, and
then gently drawn off by a pipe in the lower part of the vessel. The
lees are deposited upon the chips, and the wine runs off quite clear.
However, it happens sometimes, notwithstanding this precaution, that the
vinegar, after it is made, requires to be clarified, more particularly
if the wine employed had been weak. The vinegar must be filtered in the
same way; and it derives an advantage from it, as the products of
different casks get thereby mixed and made uniform.

By this Orleans method several weeks elapse before the acetification is
finished; but a plan has been lately devised in Germany to quicken
greatly the acid fermentation by peculiar constructions. This system is
called, the _quick_ vinegar work, because it will complete the process
in the course of 2 or 3 days, or even in a shorter time. It depends,
chiefly, upon the peculiar construction of the fermenting vessels,
whereby the vinous liquor is exposed on a vastly expanded surface to the
action of the atmospheric air.

An oaken tub, somewhat narrower at the bottom than the top, from 6 to 7
feet high and 3 feet in diameter, is furnished with a well-fitted
grooved, but loose, cover. About half a foot from its mouth, the tub has
a strong oak or beech hoop fitted to its inside surface, sufficiently
firm to support a second cover, also well fitted, but moveable. The
space under this second cover is destined to contain the vinous liquor,
and in order to bring it very amply into contact with the atmosphere,
the following contrivances have been resorted to: This cover is
perforated, like a sieve, with small holes, of from 1 to 2 lines in
diameter, and about 1-1/2 inch apart. Through each of these holes a wick
of pack-thread or cotton is drawn, about 6 inches long, which is
prevented from falling through by a knot on its upper end, while its
under part hangs free in the lower space. The wicks must be just so
thick as to allow of the liquor poured above the cover passing through
the holes in drops. The edges of the lid must be packed with tow or hemp
to prevent the liquor running down through the interval.

The whole lower compartment is now to be filled with chips of beechwood
up to nearly the perforated cover. The liquor, as it trickles through
the holes, diffuses itself over the chips, and, sinking slowly, collects
at the bottom of the tub. The chips should be prepared for this purpose
by being repeatedly scalded in boiling water, then dried, and imbued
with hot vinegar. The same measures may also be adopted for the tub. To
provide for the renewal of the air, the tub is perforated at about a
foot from its bottom with eight holes, set equally apart round the
circumference, two thirds of an inch wide, and sloping down, through
which the air may enter into this lower compartment, without the
trickling liquor being allowed to flow out. In order that the foul air
which has become useless may escape, four large holes are pierced in
the sieve cover, at equal distances asunder and from the centre, whose
united areas are rather smaller than the total areas of the holes in the
side of the tub. Into these four holes open glass tubes must be
inserted, so as to stand some inches above the cover, and to prevent any
of the liquor from running through them. The proper circulation of the
air takes place through these draught holes. This air may afterwards
pass off through a hole of 2-1/2 inches diameter in the uppermost cover,
in which a funnel is placed for the supply of liquor as it is wanted to
keep up the percolation.

The temperature of the fermenting compartment is ascertained by means of
a thermometer, whose bulb is inserted in a hole through its side, and
fastened by a perforated cork. The liquor collected in the under vessel
runs off by a syphon inserted near its bottom, the leg of which turns up
to nearly the level of the ventilating air pipes before it is bent
outwards and downwards. Thus the liquor will begin to flow out of the
under compartment only when it stands in it a little below the sieve
cover, and then it will run slowly off at the inclined mouth of the
syphon, at a level of about 3 inches below the lower end of the glass
tubes. There is a vessel placed below, upon the ground, to receive it.
The tub itself is supported upon a wooden frame, or a pier of brickwork,
a foot or 18 inches high.

A tub constructed like the above is called a GRADUATION VESSEL, which
see. It is worked in the following way:--The vinegar room must be, in
the first place, heated to from 100 deg. to 110 deg. F., or till the thermometer
in the graduation vessel indicates at least 77 deg. The heat may then be
modified. We now pour through the uppermost cover of the tub a mixture,
warmed to 144 deg. F., of 8 parts proof spirits, 25 parts soft water, 15
parts of good vinegar, and as much clear wine or beer. The water should
be first heated, and then the vinegar, spirits, and wine may be added to
it. Of this mixture, so much should be poured in as is necessary to
cover over the second lid, 2 or 3 inches deep, with the liquor; after
which, the rest may be poured slowly in, as it is wanted.

When the liquor has run for the first time through the graduation
vessel, it is not yet sufficiently acidified; but the weak vinegar
collected in the exterior receiving cistern must be a second time, and,
if need be, a third time, passed through the graduation tub, in order to
convert all the alcohol into acetic acid. In general, we may remark,
that the stronger the vinous liquor the more difficult and tedious is
its conversion into vinegar, but it is so much the stronger. To lessen
this difficulty somewhat, it would be well not to put all the spirits at
first into the wash, or mixed liquors, but to add a little more of it at
the second and the third running, especially when we desire to have very
strong vinegar.

After the graduation vessel has been some days at work, it is no longer
necessary to add vinegar to the mixture of spirits and water, since the
sides of the graduation tub, the beech chips, and the packthreads, are
all impregnated with the ferment, and supply its place. The mixture
must, however, be always maintained at the temperature of 100 deg.

Instead of the above mixture of brandy, water, and wine, we may employ,
according to Dingler, a clear fermented wort of malt, mixed with a
little spirits. The perfect vinegar, which collects in the receiving
cistern, may be immediately racked off into the store casks for sale.

It has been objected to this process, that, in consequence of the
mixture of saccharine and glutinous materials, which are contained in
beer or worts, along with the acetous fermentation, there is also,
partially, a vinous fermentation, and much carbonic acid, thereby
disengaged, so as to obstruct the acetification. This obstruction may be
remedied by a freer circulation of air, or by the exposure of quicklime
in the chamber. It is a more substantial objection, that, from the
addition of beer, &c., more lees, or dregs, are deposited in the
graduation tub, whereby a more frequent cleansing of it, and of the
beech chips, with a loss of time and vinegar, becomes necessary. The
only mode of obviating this difficulty is, to take well-clarified
fermented wash.

Another evil attendant on the quick process is, the evaporation of the
spirituous liquors. Since, in the graduation tub, there is a temperature
of 110 deg., it is impossible to avoid a loss of spirit from the circulation
and efflux of the air. The air, indeed, that issues from the top hole in
the uppermost cover, might be conducted over an extensive surface of
fresh water, where its spirit would be condensed in a great measure.
But, after all, this fear of great loss is, I believe, groundless;
because the spirit is rapidly acidified by the oxygen of the air, and
thereby rapidly loses its volatility.

The supply of the warm wash should be drawn from a cistern placed near
the ceiling, where the temperature of the apartment is hottest; and it
may be replenished from the partly acetified liquor in the cistern on
the floor. With this view, two cisterns should be placed above, so that
one of them may always contain liquor sufficiently hot, and thus the
process will suffer no interruption.

When malt wash is used for this quick process, the resulting vinegar
must be clarified in a tun with beech chips, as above described. In two
or three days the impurities will be deposited, and the fine vinegar may
be racked off.

The following prescription, for preparing what he calls malt wine, is
given by Dr. Kastner. Eighty pounds of pale barley malt, and 40 pounds
of pale wheat malt, are to be crushed together. These 120 pounds are to
be infused with 150 quarts of water, at the temperature of 122 deg. Fahr.,
afterwards with 300 quarts of boiling water, and the whole body is to be
mashed thoroughly, till all the lumps disappear. It is then to be left
at rest in a large covered tub, for two or three hours, to allow the
grains to settle down, from which the wort is to be drawn off. When it
has fallen to the temperature of 64 deg. Fahr., 15 pounds of good yeast are
to be stirred in, and it must now be left for two or three days to
ferment, in a loosely covered tun. When the vinous fermentation has
taken place, the clear liquor must be drawn off by a tap hole, a little
above the bottom, so as to leave the lees and scum in the tun. This malt
wine, he adds, may be kept for a long time in close vessels, and is
always ready for making quick vinegar.

2. _Malt Vinegar._--The greater part of British vinegar is made from
malt, by the following process:--1 boll of good barley malt, properly
crushed, is to be mashed with water at 160 deg. Fahr. The first water should
have that temperature; the second must be hotter than 160 deg., and the
third water, for the extraction of all the soluble matter, may be
boiling hot. Upon the whole, not more than 100 gallons of wort should be
extracted. After the liquor has cooled to 75 deg. Fahr., 3 or 4 gallons of
beer yeast are poured in, and well mixed with a proper stirrer. In 36 or
40 hours, according to the temperature of the air, and the fermenting
quality of the wash, it is racked off into casks, which are laid upon
their sides in the fermenting apartment of the vinegar work, which
should be kept at a temperature of 70 deg. at least; in summer partly by the
heat of the sun, but in general by the agency of proper stoves, as above
described. The bung-holes should be left open, and the casks should not
be full, in order that the air may act over an extensive surface of the
liquor. It would be proper to secure a freer circulation to the air, by
boring a hole in each end of the cask, near its upper edge. As the
liquor, by evaporation, would be generally a few degrees colder than the
air of the apartment, a circulation of air would be established in at
the bung-hole, and out by the end holes. By the ordinary methods, three
months are required to make this vinegar marketable, or fit for the
manufacture of sugar of lead.

In making vinegar for domestic purposes, the casks are usually set on
their ends; and they have, sometimes, a false bottom, pierced with
holes, placed about a foot above the true one. On this bottom, a
quantity of _rape_, or the refuse raisins, &c. from the making of
British wines, is laid. The malt liquor has a proper quantity of yeast
added to it. In about 24 hours it becomes warm, and is then racked off
into another similar cask. After some time, this racking process is
discontinued, and the vinegar is allowed to complete its fermentation
quietly. The proper temperature must always be kept up, by placing the
cask in a warm situation. A little wine-stone (_argal_) added to the
malt wash, would make the vinegar liker that made from wine. Sometimes a
little isinglass is employed to clarify vinegar. A portion of sulphuric
acid is often added to it.

3. _Sugar vinegar._--By pursuing the following plan, an excellent sugar
vinegar may be made. In 158 quarts of boiling water dissolve 10 pounds
of sugar, and 6 pounds of wine-stone; put the solution into a fermenting
cask, and when it is cooled to the temperature of from 75 deg. to 80 deg., add 4
quarts of beer yeast to it. Stir the mixture well, then cover the vessel
loosely, and expose it for 6 or 8 days to the vinous fermentation, at a
temperature of from 70 deg. to 75 deg. Fahr. When it has become clear, draw off
the vinous liquor, and either acetify it in the graduation tub above
described, or by the common vinegar process. Before it is finished, we
should add to it 12 quarts of strong spirits (brandy), and 15 quarts of
good vinegar, to complete the acetous fermentation. With a graduation
tub which has been used, this addition of vinegar is unnecessary.

The following simpler prescription for making sugar vinegar deserves
attention. For every gallon of hot water take 18 ounces of sugar; and
when the syrup has cooled to 75 deg., add 4 per cent., by measure, of yeast.
When the vinous fermentation is pretty well advanced, in the course of 2
or 3 days, rack off the clear wash from the lees into a proper cask, and
add 1 ounce of wine-stone, and 1 of crushed raisins, for every gallon of
water. Expose it in a proper manner, and for a proper time, to the
acetifying process; and then rack off the vinegar, and fine it upon
beech chips. It should be afterwards put into bottles, which are to be
well corked.

Vinegar obtained by the preceding methods has always a yellowish or
brownish colour. It may be rendered colourless by distillation. For
nicer chemical purposes, this is done in a glass retort; but on a large
scale, it is usually performed in a clean copper still, furnished with a
capital and worm-refrigeratory, either of silver or block tin. It is
volatile at the boiling temperature of water; and if the process be
carried on briskly, it will not sensibly corrode the copper. But we can
never obtain, in this way, a strong article; for, as soon as the vinegar
gets concentrated to a certain degree, we cannot force off the
remainder by heat, for fear of giving it an empyreumatic odour; because
the gluten, colouring matter, &c. begin to adhere to the bottom of the
still. We are, therefore, obliged to suspend the operation at the very
time when the acid is acquiring strength. It has been also proposed to
concentrate vinegar by the process of congelation; but much of it
remains entangled among the frozen water; and common distilled vinegar
is so weak, that it congeals in one mass.

[Illustration: _Fig._ 1.]

Before the process for pyrolignous acid, or wood vinegar, was known,
there was only one method of obtaining strong vinegar practised by
chemists; and it is still followed by some operators, to prepare what is
called radical or aromatic vinegar. This consists in decomposing, by
heat alone, the crystallised binacetate of copper, commonly, but
improperly, called distilled verdigris. With this view, we take a
stoneware retort, (_fig._ 1.) of a size suited to the quantity we wish
to operate upon; and coat it with a mixture of fire clay and horsedung,
to make it stand the heat better. When this coating is dry, we introduce
into the retort the crystallised acetate slightly bruised, but very dry;
we fill it as far as it will hold without spilling when the beak is
considerably inclined. We then set it in a proper furnace. We attach to
its neck an adopter pipe, and two or three globes with opposite
tubulures, and a last globe with a vertical tubulure. The apparatus is
terminated by a Welter's tube, with a double branch; the shorter issues
from the last globe, and the other dips into a flask filled with
distilled vinegar. Every thing being thus arranged, we lute the joinings
with a putty made of pipeclay and linseed oil, and cover them with glue
paper. Each globe is placed in a separate basin of cold water, or the
whole may be put into an oblong trough, through which a constant stream
of cold water is made to flow. The tubes must be allowed a day to dry.
Next day we proceed to the distillation, tempering the heat very nicely
at the beginning, and increasing it by very slow degrees till we see the
drops follow each other pretty rapidly from the neck of the retort, or
the end of the adopter tube. The vapours which pass over are very hot,
whence a series of globes are necessary to condense them. We should
renew, from time to time, the water of the basins, and keep moist pieces
of cloth upon the globes; but this demands great care, especially if the
fire be a little too brisk, for the vessels become, in that case, so
hot, that they would infallibly be broken, if touched suddenly with cold
water. It is always easy for us to regulate this operation, according to
the emission of gas from the extremity of the apparatus. When the air
bubbles succeed each other with great rapidity, we must damp the fire.

The liquor which passes in the first half hour is weakest; it proceeds,
in some measure, from a little water sometimes left in the crystals,
which when well made, however, ought to be anhydrous. A period arrives
towards the middle of the process when we see the extremity of the beak
of the retort, and of the adopter, covered with crystals of a lamellar
or needle shape, and of a pale green tint. By degrees these crystals are
carried into the condensed liquid by the acid vapours, and give a colour
to the product. These crystals are merely some of the cupreous salt
forced over by the heat. As the process approaches its conclusion, we
find more difficulty in raising the vapours; and we must then augment
the intensity of the heat, in order to continue their disengagement.
Finally, we judge that the process is altogether finished, when the
globes become cold, notwithstanding the furnace is at the hottest, and
when no more vapours are evolved. The fire may then be allowed to go
out, and the retort to cool.

As the acid thus obtained is slightly tinged with copper, it must be
rectified before bringing it into the market. For this purpose we may
make use of the same apparatus, only substituting for the stoneware
retort a glass one, placed in a sand bath. All the globes ought to be
perfectly clean and dry. The distillation is to be conducted in the
usual way. If we divide the product into thirds, the first yields the
feeblest acid, and the third the strongest. We should not push the
process quite to dryness, because there remains in the last portions
certain impurities, which would injure the flavour of the acid.

The total acid thus obtained forms nearly one half of the weight of the
acetate employed, and the residuum forms three tenths; so that about two
tenths of the acid have been decomposed by the heat, and are lost. As
the oxide of copper is readily reduced to the metallic state, its oxygen
goes to the elements of one part of the acid, and forms water, which
mingles with the products of carbonic acid, carburetted hydrogen, and
carbonic oxide gases which are disengaged; and there remains in the
retort some charcoal mixed with metallic copper. These two combustibles
are in such a state of division, that the residuum is pyrophoric. Hence
it often takes fire the moment of its being removed from the cold
retort. The very considerable loss experienced in this operation has
induced chemists to try different methods to obtain all the acid
contained in the acetate. Thus, for example, a certain addition of
sulphuric acid has been prescribed; but, besides that the radical
vinegar obtained in this way always contains sulphurous acid, from which
it is difficult to free it, it is thereby deprived of that spirit called
the _pyro-acetic_, which tempers the sharpness of its smell, and gives
it an agreeable aroma. It is to be presumed, therefore, that the
preceding process will continue to be preferred for making aromatic
vinegar. Its odour is often further modified by essential oils, such as
those of rosemary, lavender, &c.

4. _Pyrolignous Acid, or Wood Vinegar._--The process for making this
acid is founded upon the general property of heat, to separate the
elements of vegetable substances, and to unite them anew in another
order, with the production of compounds which did not exist in the
bodies subjected to its action. The respective proportion of these
products varies, not only in the different substances, but also in the
same substance, according as the degree of heat has been greater or
less, or conducted with more or less skill. When we distil a vegetable
body in a close vessel, we obtain at first the included water, or that
of vegetation; there is next formed another portion of water, at the
expense of the oxygen and hydrogen of the body; a proportional quantity
of charcoal is set free, and, with the successive increase of the heat,
a small portion of charcoal combines with the oxygen and hydrogen to
form acetic acid. This was considered, for some time, as a peculiar
acid, and was accordingly called _pyrolignous_ acid. As the proportion
of carbon becomes preponderant, it combines with the other principles,
and then some empyreumatic oil is volatilised, of little colour, but
which becomes thicker, and of a darker tint, always getting more loaded
with carbon.

Several elastic fluids accompany these different products. Carbonic acid
comes over, but in small quantity, much carburetted hydrogen, and,
towards the end, a considerable proportion of carbonic oxide. The
remainder of the charcoal, which could not be carried off in these
several combinations, is found in the retort, and preserves, usually,
the form of the vegetable body which furnished it. Since mankind have
begun to reason on the different operations of the arts, and to raise
them to a level with scientific researches they have introduced into
several branches of manufacture a multitude of improvements, of which,
formerly, they would hardly have deemed them susceptible. Thus, in
particular, the process for carbonising wood has been singularly
meliorated, and in reference to the preceding observations, advantage
has been derived from several products that formerly were not even
collected.

[Illustration: _Fig._ 2.]

The apparatus employed for obtaining crude vinegar from wood, by the
agency of heat, are large iron cylinders. In this country they are made
of cast iron, and are laid horizontally in the furnace; in France, they
are made of sheet iron riveted together, and they are set upright in the
fire. _Fig._ 2. will give an accurate idea of the British plan, which is
much the same as that adopted for decomposing pit coal in gas works,
only that the cylinders for the pyrolignous acid manufacture are
generally larger, being frequently 4 feet in diameter, and 6 or 8 feet
long, and built horizontally in brickwork, so that the flame of one
furnace may play around two of them. It would, probably, answer better,
if their size were brought nearer the dimensions of the gas-light
retorts, and if the whole system of working them were assimilated to
that of coal gas.

The following arrangement is adopted in an excellent establishment in
Glasgow, where the above large cylinders are 6 feet long, and both ends
of them project a very little beyond the brickwork. One end has a disc
or round plate of cast iron, well fitted, and firmly bolted to it, from
the centre of which disc an iron tube, about 6 inches diameter, proceeds
and enters, at a right angle, the main tube of refrigeration. The
diameter of this tube may be from 9 to 14 inches, according to the
number of cylinders. The other end of the cylinder is called the mouth
of the retort; this is closed by a disc of iron, smeared round its edge
by clay lute, and secured in its place by fir wedges. The charge of wood
for such a cylinder is about 8 cwt. The hard woods--oak, ash, birch, and
beech--are alone used; fir does not answer. The heat is kept up during
the day-time, and the furnace is allowed to cool during the night. Next
morning, the door is opened, the charcoal removed, and a new charge of
wood is introduced. The average product of crude vinegar called
pyrolignous acid, is 35 gallons. It is much contaminated with tar, is of
a deep brown colour, and has a sp. gr. of 1.025. Its total weight is
therefore about 300 lbs., but the residuary charcoal is found to weigh
no more than one fifth of the wood employed; hence nearly one half of
the ponderable matter of the wood is dissipated in incondensable gases.
Count Rumford states, that the charcoal is equal in weight to more than
four tenths of the wood from which it is made. The count's error seems
to have arisen from the slight heat of an oven to which his wood was
exposed in a glass cylinder. The result now given, is the experience of
an eminent manufacturing chemist.

The crude pyrolignous acid is rectified by a second distillation in a
copper still, in the body of which about 20 gallons of viscid tarry
matter are left from every 100. It has now become a transparent brown
vinegar, having a considerably empyreumatic smell, and a sp. gr. of
1.013. Its acid powers are superior to those of the best household
vinegar, in the proportion of three to two. By redistillation,
saturation with quicklime, evaporation of the liquid acetate to dryness,
and conversion into acetate of soda by sulphate of soda, the
empyreumatic matter is so completely dissipated, that on decomposing the
pure acetate of soda by sulphuric acid, a perfectly colourless and
grateful vinegar rises in distillation. Its strength will be
proportionable to the concentration of the decomposing acid.

The acetic acid of the chemist may be prepared also in the following
modes:--1. Two parts of fused acetate of potash, with one of the
strongest oil of vitriol, yield, by slow distillation from a glass
retort into a refrigerated receiver, concentrated acetic acid. A small
portion of sulphurous acid, which contaminates it, may be removed by
redistillation from a little acetate of lead. 2. Or four parts of good
sugar of lead, with one part of sulphuric acid, treated in the same way,
afford a slightly weaker acetic acid. 3. Gently calcined sulphate of
iron, or green vitriol, mixed with sugar of lead, in the proportion of 1
of the former to 2-1/2 of the latter, or with acetate of copper, and
carefully distilled from a porcelain retort into a cool receiver, may be
also considered an economical process. But that with binacetate of
copper above described, is preferable to any of these.

[Illustration: _Fig._ 3.]

The manufacture of pyrolignous acid is conducted in the following way in
France. Into large cylindrical vessels (_fig._ 3.) made of rivetted
sheet iron, and having at their top and side a small sheet iron
cylinder, the wood intended for making charcoal is introduced. To the
upper part of this vessel a cover of sheet iron, B, is adapted, which is
fixed with bolts. This vessel, thus closed, represents, as we see, a
vast retort. When it is prepared, as we have said, it is lifted by means
of a swing crane, C, and placed in a furnace, D, (_fig._ 4.) of a form
relative to that of the vessel, and the opening of the furnace is
covered with a dome, E, made of masonry or brickwork. The whole being
thus arranged, heat is applied in the furnace at the bottom. The
moisture of the wood is first dissipated, but by degrees the liquor
ceases to be transparent, and becomes sooty. An adopter tube, A, is then
fitted to the lateral cylinder. This adopter enters into another tube at
the same degree of inclination which commences the condensing apparatus.
The means of condensation vary according to the localities. In certain
works they cool by means of air, by making the vapour pass through a
long series of cylinders, or sometimes, even, through a series of casks
connected together; but most usually water is used for condensing, when
it can be easily procured in abundance. The most simple apparatus
employed for this purpose consists of two cylinders, F, F, (_fig._ 4.)
the one within the other, and which leave between them a sufficient
space to allow a considerable body of water to circulate along and cool
the vapours. This double cylinder is adapted to the distilling vessel,
and placed at a certain inclination. To the first double tube, F, F, a
second, and sometimes a third, entirely similar, are connected, which,
to save space, return upon themselves in a zigzag fashion. The water is
set in circulation by an ingenious means now adopted in many different
manufactories. From the lower extremity, G, of the system of condensers,
a perpendicular tube rises, whose length should be a little more than
the most elevated point of the system. The water, furnished by a
reservoir, L, enters by means of the perpendicular tube through the
lower part of the system, and fills the whole space between the double
cylinders. When the apparatus is in action, the vapours, as they
condense, raise the temperature of the water, which, by the column in L
G, is pressed to the upper part of the cylinders, and runs over by the
spout K. To this point a very short tube is attached, which is bent
towards the ground, and serves as an overflow.

[Illustration: _Fig._ 4.]

The condensing apparatus is terminated by a conduit in bricks covered
and sunk in the ground. At the extremity of this species of gutter is a
bent tube, E, which discharges the liquid product into the first
cistern. When it is full, it empties itself, by means of an overflow
pipe, into a great reservoir; the tube which terminates the gutter
plunges into the liquid, and thus intercepts communication with the
inside of the apparatus. The disengaged gas is brought back by means of
pipes M L, from one of the sides of the conduit to the under part of the
ash pit of the furnace. These pipes are furnished with stopcocks M, at
some distance in front of the furnace, for the purpose of regulating the
jet of the gas, and interrupting, at pleasure, communication with the
inside of the apparatus. The part of the pipes which terminates in the
furnace rises perpendicularly several inches above the ground, and is
expanded like the rose of a watering can, N. The gas, by means of this
disposition, can distribute itself uniformly under the vessel, without
suffering the pipe which conducts it to be obstructed by the fuel or the
ashes.

The temperature necessary to effect the carbonisation is not
considerable: however, at the last it is raised so high as to make the
vessels red hot; and the duration of the process is necessarily
proportional to the quantity of wood carbonised. For a vessel which
shall contain about 5 meters cube (nearly 6 cubic yds.), 8 hours of fire
is sufficient. It is known that the carbonisation is complete by the
colour of the flame of the gas: it is first of a yellowish red; it
becomes afterwards blue, when more carbonic oxide than carbonic hydrogen
is evolved; and towards the end it becomes entirely white,--a
circumstance owing, probably, to the furnace being more heated at this
period, and the combustion being more complete. There is still another
means of knowing the state of the process, to which recourse is more
frequently had; that is the cooling of the first tubes, which are not
surrounded with water: a few drops of this fluid are thrown upon their
surface, and if they evaporate quietly, it is judged that the
calcination is sufficient. The adopter tube is then unluted, and is slid
into its junction pipe; the orifices are immediately stopped with plates
of iron and plaster loam. The brick cover, E, of the furnace is first
removed by means of the swing crane, then the cylinder itself is lifted
out and replaced immediately by another one previously charged. When the
cylinder which has been taken out of the furnace is entirely cooled, its
cover is removed, and the charcoal is emptied. Five cubic meters of wood
furnish about 7 chaldrons (voies) and a half of charcoal. (For
modifications of the wood-vinegar apparatus, see CHARCOAL and
PYROLIGNOUS ACID.)

The different qualities of wood employed in this operation give nearly
similar product in reference to the acid; but this is not the case with
the charcoal, for it is better the harder the wood; and it has been
remarked, that wood long exposed to the air furnishes a charcoal of a
worse quality than wood carbonised soon after it is cut.

Having described the kind of apparatus employed to obtain pyrolignous
acid, I shall now detail the best mode of purifying it. This acid has a
reddish brown colour; it holds in solution a portion of empyreumatic oil
and of the tar which were formed at the same time; another portion of
these products is in the state of a simple mixture; the latter may be
separated by repose alone. It is stated, above, that the distilling
apparatus terminates in a subterranean reservoir, where the products of
all the vessels are mixed. A common pump communicates with the
reservoir, and sinks to its very bottom, in order that it may draw off
only the stratum of tar, which, according to its greater density,
occupies the lower part. From time to time the pump is worked to remove
the tar as it is deposited. The reservoir has at its top an overflow
pipe, which discharges the clearest acid into a cistern, from which it
is taken by means of a second pump.

The pyrolignous acid thus separated from the undissolved tar is
transferred from this cistern into large sheet iron boilers, where its
saturation is effected either by quicklime or by chalk; the latter of
which is preferable, as the lime is apt to take some of the tar into
combination. The acid parts by saturation with a new portion of the tar,
which is removed by skimmers. The neutral solution is then allowed to
rest for a sufficient time to let its clear parts be drawn off by
decantation.

The acetate of lime thus obtained indicates by the hydrometer, before
being mixed with the waters of edulcoration, a degree corresponding to
the acidimetric degree of the acid employed. This solution must be
evaporated till it reaches a specific gravity of 1.114 (15 deg. Baume),
after which there is added to it a saturated solution of sulphate of
soda. The acids exchange bases; sulphate of lime precipitates, and
acetate of soda remains in solution. In some manufactures, instead of
pursuing the above plan, the sulphate of soda is dissolved in the hot
pyrolignous acid, which is afterwards saturated with chalk or lime. By
this means no water need be employed to dissolve the sulphate, and
accordingly the liquor is obtained in a concentrated form without
evaporation. In both modes the sulphate of lime is allowed to settle,
and the solution of acetate of soda is decanted. The residuum is set
aside to be edulcorated, and the last waters are employed for washing
fresh portions.

The acetate of soda which results from this double decomposition is
afterwards evaporated till it attains to the density of 1.225 or 1.23,
according to the season. This solution is poured into large
crystallising vessels, from which, at the end of 3 or 4 days, according
to their capacity, the mother waters are decanted, and a first
crystallisation is obtained of rhomboidal prisms, which are highly
coloured and very bulky. Their facettes are finely polished, and their
edges very sharp. The mother waters are submitted to successive
evaporations and crystallisations till they refuse to crystallise, and
they are then burnt to convert them into carbonate of soda.

To avoid guesswork proportions, which are always injurious, by the loss
of time which they occasion, and by the bad results to which they often
lead, we should determine experimentally, beforehand, the quantities
absolutely necessary for the reciprocal decomposition, especially when
we change the acid or the sulphate. But it may be remarked that,
notwithstanding all the precautions we can take, there is always a
notable quantity of sulphate of soda and acetic acid, which disappear
totally in this decomposition. This arises from the circumstance that
sulphate of soda and acetate of lime do not completely decompose each
other, as I have ascertained by experiments on a very considerable
scale; and thus a portion of each of them is always lost with the mother
waters. It might be supposed that by calcining the acetate of lime we
could completely destroy its empyreumatic oil; but, though I have made
many experiments, with this view I never could obtain an acetate capable
of affording a tolerable acid. Some manufacturers prefer to make the
acetate of soda by direct saturation of the acid with the alkali, and
think that the higher price of this substance is compensated by the
economy of time and fuel which it produces.

The acetate of soda is easily purified by crystallisations and
torrefaction; the latter process, when well conducted, freeing it
completely from every particle of tar. This torrefaction, to which the
name of fusion may be given, requires great care and dexterity. It is
usually done in shallow cast iron boilers of a hemispherical shape.
During all the time that the heat of about 500 deg. Fahr. is applied, the
fused mass must be diligently worked with rakes; an operation which
continues about 24 hours for half a ton of materials. We must carefully
avoid raising the temperature so high as to decompose the acetate, and
be sure that the heat is equally distributed; for if any point of the
mass enters into decomposition, it is propagated with such rapidity, as
to be excessively difficult to stop its progress in destroying the
whole. The heat should never be so great as to disengage any smoke, even
when the whole acetate is liquefied. When there is no more frothing up,
and the mass flows like oil, the operation is finished. It is now
allowed to cool in a body, or it may be ladled out into moulds, which is
preferable.

When the acetate is dissolved in water, the charcoaly matter proceeding
from the decomposition of the tar must be separated by filtration, or by
boiling up the liquor to the specific gravity 1.114, when the
carbonaceous matter falls to the bottom. On evaporating the clear
liquor, we obtain an acetate perfectly fine, which yields beautiful
crystals on cooling. In this state of purity it is decomposed by
sulphuric acid, in order to separate its acetic acid.

This last operation, however simple it appears, requires no little care
and skill. The acetate of soda crystallised and ground is put into a
copper, and the necessary quantity of sulphuric acid of 1.842 (about 35
per cent. of the salt) to decompose almost, but not all, the acetate, is
poured on. The materials are left to act on each other; by degrees the
acetic acid quits its combination, and swims upon the surface; the
greater part of the resulting sulphate of soda falls in a pulverulent
form, or in small granular crystals, to the bottom. Another portion
remains dissolved in the liquid, which has a specific gravity of 1.08.
By distillation we separate this remainder of the sulphate, and finally
obtain acetic acid, having a specific gravity of 1.05, an agreeable
taste and smell, though towards the end it becomes a little
empyreumatic, and coloured; for which reason, the last portions must be
kept apart. The acid destined for table use ought to be distilled in an
alembic whose capital and condensing worm are of silver; and to make it
very fine, it may be afterwards infused over a little washed bone-black.
It is usually obtained in a pretty concentrated state; but when we wish
to give it the highest degree of concentration, we mix with it a
quantity of dry muriate of lime, and distil anew. This acid may be
afterwards exposed to congelation, when the strongest will crystallise.
It is decanted, and the crystals are melted by exposing them to a
temperature of from 60 deg. to 70 deg. Fahr.; this process is repeated till the
acid congeals without remainder, at the temperature of 55 deg. Fahr. It has
then attained its maximum strength, and has a specific gravity of 1.063.

We shall add an observation on the above mode of decomposing the acetate
of soda by sulphuric acid. Many difficulties are experienced in this
process, if the sulphuric acid be poured on in small quantities at a
time; for then such acrid fumes of acetic acid are disengaged, that the
workmen are obliged to retire. This inconvenience may be saved by adding
all the sulphuric acid at once; it occupies the lower part of the
vessel, and decomposes only the portion of the acetate in contact with
it; the heat evolved in consequence of this reaction is diffused through
a great mass, and produces no sensible effect. When the sulphuric acid
forms an opening, or a species of little crater, the workman, by means
of a rake, depresses the acetate into it by degrees, and then the
decomposition proceeds as slowly as he desires.

The acetic acid, like the nitric, chloric, and some others, has not
hitherto been obtained free from water, and the greatest degree of
concentration which we have been able to give it is that in which it
contains only the quantity of water equivalent to the atomic weight of
another oxidized body; a quantity which amounts to 14.89 per cent. The
processes prescribed for preparing concentrated acetic acid sometimes
tend to deprive it of that water without which it could not exist:
hence, in all such cases, there is a part of the acid itself decomposed
to furnish the water necessary to the constitution of the remainder. The
constituent principles of the decomposed portion then form a peculiar,
intoxicating, highly inflammatory liquid, called the PYRO-ACETIC SPIRIT.

The most highly concentrated acid of 1.063 becomes denser by the
addition of a certain quantity of water up to a certain point. According
to Berzelius, the prime equivalent of this acid is 643.189, oxygen being
reckoned 100. Now, the above strongest acid consists of one prime of
acid, and one of water = 1124.79. When it contains three atoms of water,
that is, 337.437 parts to 643.189, or 34.41 to 65.59 in 100, it then has
taken its maximum density of 1.075; after which the further addition of
water diminishes its specific gravity, as the following table of
Mollerat shows. His supposed anhydrous or dry acid contains, at 1.0630,
0.114 parts of water.

_Table of Acetic Acid._

  +----------+--------+
  | Water in |Specific|
  |100 parts.|gravity.|
  +----------+--------+
  |   0.00   | 1.0630 |
  |   8.37   | 1.0742 |
  |  17.00   | 1.0770 |
  |  23.00   | 1.0791 |
  |  28.10   | 1.0763 |
  |  33.83   | 1.0742 |
  |  37.60   | 1.0728 |
  |  47.00   | 1.0658 |
  |  50.00   | 1.0637 |
  |  51.80   | 1.063  |
  +----------+--------+

Acetic acid readily takes fire when it is heated in open vessels to the
boiling point, and it burns with a blue flame, nearly like alcohol. It
must be kept in close vessels, otherwise it loses its strength, by
attracting humidity from the air. When concentrated, it is used only as
a scent, or pungent exciter of the olfactory organs, in sickness and
fainting fits. Its anti-epidemic qualities are apocryphal. What is met
with in the shops under the name of salts of vinegar is nothing but
sulphate of potash, put up in small phials, and impregnated with acetic
acid, sometimes rendered aromatic with oil of rosemary or lavender.

Acetic acid, in its dry state, as it exists in fused acetate of potash
or soda, is composed of

   47.536 carbon
    5.822 hydrogen
   46.642 oxygen
  -------
  100.000

And its symbol by Berzelius is H^{6} C^{4} O^{3} = A. We must bear in
mind that his atomic weight for hydrogen is only one half of the number
usually assigned to it by British chemists, in consequence of his making
water a compound of two atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen.

When the vapour of acetic acid is made to traverse a red-hot tube of
iron, it is converted into water, carbonic acid, carburetted hydrogen,
but chiefly pyro-acetic spirit. Acetic acid is a solvent of several
organic products; such as camphor, gluten, gum-resins, resins, the
fibrine of blood, the white of egg, &c.

It is an important problem to ascertain the purity and strength of
vinegar. Spurious acidity is too often given to it by cheaper acids,
such as the sulphuric and the nitric. The former, may most surely be
detected by the nitrate of baryta, or even by acetate of lead, which
occasion a white precipitate in such adulterated vinegar. For the case
of nitric, which is more insidious, the proper test is, a bit of gold
leaf, wetted with a few drops of muriatic acid. If the leaf dissolves,
on heating the mixture in a watch glass, we may be sure that nitric acid
is present.

Specific gravity, if determined by a sensible hydrometer, is a good test
of the strength of the genuine vinegar; and the following table of
Messrs. Taylor is nearly correct, or sufficiently so for commercial
transactions.

Revenue proof vinegar, called by the English manufacturer No. 24., has a
specific gravity of

  1.0085 and contains of real acid in 100--  5
  1.0170                                    10
  1.0257                                    15
  1.0320                                    20
  1.0470                                    30
  1.0580                                    40

An excise duty of 2_d._ is levied on every gallon of the above proof
vinegar. Its strength is not, however, estimated directly by its
specific gravity, but by the specific gravity which it assumes when
saturated with quicklime. The decimal fraction of the specific gravity
of the calcareous acetate is very nearly the double of that of the pure
vinegar; or, 1.009 in vinegar becomes 1.018 in acetate of lime. The
vinegar of malt contains so much mucilage or gluten, that when it has
only the same acid strength as the above, it has a density of 1.0014,
but it becomes only 1.023 when converted into acetate of lime: indeed,
0.005 of its density is due to mucilaginous matter. This fact shows the
fallacy of trusting to the hydrometer for determining the strength of
vinegars, which may be more or less loaded with vegetable gluten. The
proper test of this, as of all other acids, is, the quantity of alkaline
matter which a given weight or measure of it will saturate. For this
purpose the bicarbonate of potash, commonly called, in the London shops,
carbonate, may be employed very conveniently. As it is a very uniform
substance, and its atomic weight, by the hydrogen radix, is 100.584,
while the atomic weight of acetic acid, by the same radix, is 51.563, if
we estimate 2 grains of the bicarbonate as equivalent to 1 of the real
acid, we shall commit no appreciable error. Hence, a solution of the
carbonate containing 200 grains in 100 measures, will form an acetimeter
of the most perfect and convenient kind; for the measures of test liquid
expended in saturating any measure,--for instance, an ounce or 1000
grains of acid,--will indicate the number of grains of real acetic acid
in that quantity. Thus, 1000 grains of the above proof, would require 50
measures of the acetimetrical alkaline solution, showing that it
contains 50 grains of real acetic acid in 1000, or 5 per cent.

It is common to add to purified wood vinegar, a little acetic ether, or
caramelised (burnt) sugar to colour it, also, in France, even wine, to
flavour it. Its blanching effect upon red cabbage, which it has been
employed to pickle, is owing to a little sulphurous acid. This may be
removed by redistillation with peroxide of manganese. Indeed, Stoltze
professes to purify the pyrolignous acid solely by distilling it with
peroxide of manganese, and then digesting it with bruised wood charcoal;
or by distilling it with a mixture of sulphuric acid and manganese. But
much acid is lost in this case by the formation of acetate of that
metal.

Birch and beech afford most Pyrolignous acid, and pine the least. It is
exclusively employed in the arts, for most purposes of which it need not
be very highly purified. It is much used in calico printing, for
preparing acetate of iron called IRON LIQUOR, and acetate of alumina,
called RED LIQUOR; which see. It serves also to make sugar of lead; yet
when it contains its usual quantity, after rectification, of tarry
matter, the acetate of lead will hardly crystallise, but forms
cauliflower concretions. This evil may be remedied, I believe, by
boiling the saline solution with a very little nitric acid, which causes
the precipitation of a brown granular substance, and gives the liquor a
reddish tinge. The solution being afterwards treated with bruised
charcoal, becomes colourless, and furnishes regular crystals of acetate
or sugar of lead.

Pyrolignous acid possesses, in a very eminent degree, anti-putrescent
properties. Flesh steeped in it for a few hours may be afterwards dried
in the air without corrupting; but it becomes hard, and somewhat
leather-like: so that this mode of preservation does not answer well for
butcher's meat. Fish are sometimes cured with it. See PYRO-ACETIC
SPIRIT; PYROXILIC ETHER; PYROXOLIC SPIRIT; PYROLIGNOUS ACID and
VINEGAR.


ACETIMETER. An apparatus for determining the strength of vinegar. See
the conclusion of the preceding article for a description of my simple
method of acetimetry.


ACETONE. The new chemical name of pyro-acetic spirit.


ACID OF ARSENIC. (_Acide Arsenique_, Fr.; _Arseniksaeure_, Germ.)


ACIDS. A class of chemical substances characterised by the property of
combining with and neutralising the alkaline and other bases, and of
thereby forming a peculiar class of bodies called salts. The acids which
constitute objects of special manufacture for commercial purposes are
the following:--acetic, arsenious, carbonic, chromic, citric, malic,
muriatic, nitric, oxalic, phosphoric, sulphuric, tartaric, which see.


ACROSPIRE. (_Plumule_, Fr.; _Blattkeim_, Germ.) That part of a
germinating seed which botanists call the plumula, or plumes. See BEER
and MALT.


ADDITIONS. Such articles as are added to the fermenting wash of the
distiller are distinguished by this trivial name.


ADIPOCIRE. Fr. (_Fettwachs_, Germ.) The fatty matter generated in dead
bodies buried under peculiar circumstances. In 1786 and 1787, when the
churchyard of the _Innocents_, at Paris, was cleaned out, and the bones
transported to the catacombs, it was discovered that not a few of the
_cadavres_ were converted into a saponaceous white substance, more
especially many of those which had been interred for fifteen years in
one pit, to the amount of 1500, in coffins closely packed together.
These bodies were flattened, in consequence of their mutual pressure;
and, though they generally retained their shape, there was deposited
round the bones of several a grayish white, somewhat soft, flexible
substance. Fourcroy presented to the Academy of Sciences, in 1789, a
comprehensive memoir upon this phenomenon, which appeared to prove that
the fatty body was an ammoniacal soap, containing phosphate of lime;
that the fat was similar to spermaceti, as it assumed on slow cooling a
foliated crystalline structure; as also to wax, as, when rapidly cooled,
it became granular: hence he called it _Adipocire_. Its melting point
was 52.5 deg. C. (126.5 deg. Fahr.). He likewise compared this soap to the fat
of gall-stones, and supposed it to be a natural product of the slow
decomposition of all animal matter, except bones, nails, and hairs.

This substance was again examined by Chevreul in 1812, and was found by
him to contain margaric acid, oleic acid, combined with a yellow
colouring, odorous matter, besides ammonia, a little lime, potash, oxide
of iron, salts of lactic acid, an azotized substance; and was therefore
considered as a combination of margaric and oleic acids, in variable
proportions (whence arose its variable fusibility), but that it was not
analogous with either spermaceti or cholesterine (gallstones). These fat
acids are obviously generated by the reaction of the ammonia upon the
margarine and oleine, though they eventually lose the greater part of
that volatile alkali.

According to the views of both Gay Lussac and Chevreul, this _adipocire_
proceeds solely from the pre-existing fat of the dead body, and not from
the flesh, tendons, or cartilages, as had been previously imagined;
which had led to some expensive and abortive attempts, upon the great
scale of manufacture, to convert the dead bodies of cattle into
adipocire, for the purposes of the candle-maker or soap-boiler, by
exposing them for some time to the action of moisture.

Von Hartkol made experiments during 25 years upon this subject, from
which he inferred, that there is no formation of adipocire in bodies
buried in dry ground; that in moist earth the fat of the dead body does
not increase, but changes into a fetid saponaceous substance, incapable
of being worked into either soap or candles; that the dead bodies of
_mammalia_ immersed in running water, leave behind after 3 years a pure
fat, which is more abundant from young than from old animals; that the
intestines afford more fat than the muscles; that from this fat, without
any purification, candles may be made, as void of smell, as hard, and as
white, as from bleached wax; that from cadavers immersed for 3 years in
stagnant water, more fat is procured than from those in running water,
but that it needs to be purified before it can be made into soap or
candles.

The cause of the difference between Hartkol's and Chevreul's results
cannot be assigned, as the latter has not published his promised remarks
upon the subject. At any rate, dead animal matter can be worked up more
profitably than in making artificial _adipocire_.


ADIT. The horizontal entrance of a mine. It is sometimes called the
drift. See MINING and METALLURGY.


ADULTERATION. The debasing any product of manufacture, especially
chemical, by the introduction of cheap materials. The art of
ascertaining the genuineness of the several products will be taught
under the specific objects of manufacture.


AETHER. See ETHER.


AFFINITY. The chemical term denoting the peculiar attractive force which
produces the combination of dissimilar substances; such as of an alkali
with an acid, or of sulphur with a metal.


AGARIC. A species of boletus or fungus, which grows in dunghills; with
the salts of iron it affords a black dye. It is said to be convertible
into a kind of china ink.


AGATE. A siliceous mineral which is cut into seals and other forms for
the coarser kinds of jewellery. See GEM.


AIR. See VENTILATION.


ALABASTER, is a stone usually white, and soft enough to be scratched by
iron. There are two kinds of it: the gypseous, which is merely a natural
semi-crystalline sulphate of lime; and the calcareous alabaster, which
is a carbonate of lime. The oriental alabaster is always of the latter
kind, and is most esteemed, because it is agreeably variegated with
lively colours, and especially with zones of honey-yellow, yellow-brown,
red, &c.; it is, moreover, susceptible of taking a marble polish.

The fineness of the grain of alabaster, the uniformity of its texture,
the beauty of its polished surface, and its semi-transparency, are the
qualities which render it valuable to the sculptor and to the
manufacturer of ornamental toys.

The limestone alabaster is frequently found as a yellowish-white deposit
in certain fountains. The most celebrated spring of this kind is that of
the baths of San Filippo, in Tuscany. The water, almost boiling hot,
runs over an enormous mass of stalactites, which it has formed, and
holds the carbonate of lime in solution by means of sulphuretted
hydrogen (according to M. Alexandre Brongniart), which escapes by
contact of the atmosphere. Advantage has been taken of this property to
make _basso relievos_ of considerable hardness, by placing moulds of
sulphur very obliquely, or almost upright, in wooden tubs open at the
bottom. These tubs are surmounted at the top with a large wooden cross.
The water of the spring, after having deposited in an external conduit
or cistern the coarser sediment, is made to flow upon this wooden cross,
where it is scattered into little streamlets, and thence lets fall, upon
the sulphur casts, a precipitate so much the finer the more nearly
vertical the mould. From one to four months are required for this
operation, according to the thickness of the deposited crust. By
analogous processes, the artists have succeeded in moulding vases,
figures of animals, and other objects, in relief, of every different
form, which require only to be trimmed a little, and afterwards
polished.

The common alabaster is composed of sulphuric acid and lime, though some
kinds of it effervesce with acids, and therefore contain some carbonate
of lime. This alabaster occurs in many different colours, and of very
different degrees of hardness, but it is always softer than marble. It
forms, usually, the lowest beds of the gypsum quarries. The sculptors
prefer the hardest, the whitest, and those of a granular texture, like
Carrara marble, and so like that they can only be distinguished by the
hardness.

The alabaster is worked with the same tools as marble; and as it is many
degrees softer, it is so much the more easily cut; but it is more
difficult to polish, from its little solidity. After it has been
fashioned into the desired form, and smoothed down with pumice stone, it
is polished with a pap-like mixture of chalk, soap, and milk; and, last
of all, finished by friction with flannel. It is apt to acquire a
yellowish tinge.

Besides the harder kinds, employed for the sculpture of large figures,
there is a softer alabaster, pure white and semi-transparent, from which
small ornamental objects are made, such as boxes, vases, lamps, stands
of time-pieces, &c. This branch of business is much prosecuted in
Florence, Leghorn, Milan, &c., and employs a great many turning lathes.
Of all the alabasters the Florentine merits the preference, on account
of its beauty and uniformity, so that it may be fashioned into figures
of considerable size; for which purpose there are large work-shops where
it is cut with steel saws into blocks and masses of various shapes.
Other sorts of gypsum, such as that of Salzburg and Austria, contain
sand veins, and hard nodules, and require to be quarried by cleaving and
blasting operations, which are apt to crack it, and unfit it for all
delicate objects of sculpture. It is, besides, of a gray shade, and
often stained with darker colours.

The alabaster best adapted for the fine arts is pretty white when newly
broken, and becomes whiter on the surface by drying. It may be easily
cut with the knife or chisel, and formed into many pleasing shapes by
suitable steel tools. It is worked either by the hand alone, or with the
aid of a turning lathe. The turning tools should not be too thin or
sharp-edged; but such as are employed for ivory and brass are most
suitable for alabaster, and are chiefly used to shave and to scratch the
surface. The objects which cannot be turned may be fashioned by the
rasping tools, or with minute files, such as variegated foliage. Fine
chisels and graving tools are also used for the better pieces of
statuary.

For polishing such works, a peculiar process is required: pumice stone,
in fine powder, serves to smooth down the surfaces very well, but it
soils the whiteness of the alabaster. To take away the unevennesses and
roughnesses dried shave-grass (_equisetum_) answers best. Frictions with
this plant and water polish down the asperities left by the chisel: the
fine streaks left by the grass may be removed by rubbing the pieces with
slaked lime, finely pulverised and sifted, made into a paste, or putty,
with water. The polish and satin-lustre of the surface are communicated
by friction, first with soap-water and lime, and finally with powdered
and elutriated talc or French chalk.

Such articles as consist of several pieces are joined by a cement
composed of quicklime and white of egg, or of well-calcined and
well-sifted Paris plaster, mixed with the least possible quantity of
water.

Alabaster objects are liable to become yellow by keeping, and are
especially injured by smoke, dust, &c. They may be in some measure
restored by washing with soap and water, then with clear water, and
again polished with shave-grass. Grease spots may be removed either by
rubbing with talc powder, or with oil of turpentine.

The surface of alabaster may be etched by covering over the parts that
are not to be touched with a solution of wax in oil of turpentine,
thickened with white lead, and immersing the articles in pure water
after the varnish has set. The action of the water is continued from 20
to 50 hours, more or less, according to the depth to which the etching
is to be cut. After removing the varnish with oil of turpentine, the
etched places, which are necessarily deprived of their polish, should be
rubbed with a brush dipped in finely-powdered gypsum, which gives a kind
of opacity, contrasting well with the rest of the surface.

Alabaster may be stained either with metallic solutions, with spirituous
tinctures of dyeing plants, or with coloured oils, in the same way as
marbles.

This substance has been hardened, it is said, by exposing it to the heat
of a baker's oven for 10 or 20 hours, after taking it out of the quarry,
and giving it the figure, roughly, which it is intended to have. After
this exposure, it must be dipped for two minutes in running water; when
it is cold, it must be dipped a second time for the same period. On
being exposed to the air for a few days, alabaster so treated acquires a
marble-like hardness. I doubt the truth of this statement.


ALBUM GRAECUM. The white dung of dogs, sometimes used to soften leather
in the process of dressing it after the depilatory action of lime.


ALCARAZZAS. A species of porous earthenware, made in Spain, for cooling
liquors. See POTTERY.


ALCOHOL. The well-known intoxicating liquor procured by distillation
from various vegetable juices, and infusions of a saccharine nature,
which have undergone the vinous fermentation. Common alcohol, or proof
spirit, as it is called, contains about one half its weight of water. It
may be concentrated till its specific gravity becomes so low as 0.825,
by simple redistillation at a steam or water-bath heat; but to make it
stronger, we must mix with it, in the still or retort, dry carbonate of
potash, muriate of lime, or some other substances strongly attractive of
water, and then it may be obtained of a specific gravity so low as 0.791
at 16 deg. Reaumur (68 deg. Fahr.), water being 1.000. At 0.825, it contains,
still, 11 per cent. of water; and in this state it is as volatile as
absolute alcohol, on account of the inferior density of the aqueous
vapour, compared to the alcoholic. Indeed, according to Yelin and Fuchs,
the boiling point of anhydrous alcohol is higher than of that which
contains 2 or 3 per cent. of water; hence, in the distillation of
alcohol of 94 per cent., the first portions that come over are more
aqueous than the following. Absolute alcohol has its boiling point at
168-1/2 deg. Fahr.: but when it holds more than 6 per cent. of water, the
first portions that come over are richest in alcohol, and the
temperature of the boiling point, or of the spirituous vapour, is always
higher the longer the distillation continues. According to Groening's
researches, the following temperatures of the alcoholic vapours
correspond to the accompanying contents of alcohol in per centage of
volume, which are disengaged in the boiling of the spirituous liquid.

  +------------+-----------+-----------+
  |            |Alcoholic  |Alcoholic  |
  |Temperature.|content of |content of |
  |            |the vapour.|the boiling|
  |            |           |liquid.    |
  +------------+-----------+-----------+
  |Fahr. 170.0 |   93      |    92     |
  |      171.8 |   92      |    90     |
  |      172   |   91      |    85     |
  |      172.8 |   90-1/2  |    80     |
  |      174   |   90      |    70     |
  |      174.6 |   89      |    70     |
  |      176   |   87      |    65     |
  |      178.3 |   85      |    50     |
  |      180.8 |   82      |    40     |
  |      183   |   80      |    35     |
  |      185   |   78      |    30     |
  |      187.4 |   76      |    25     |
  |      189.8 |   71      |    20     |
  |      192.0 |   68      |    18     |
  |      164   |   66      |    15     |
  |      196.4 |   61      |    12     |
  |      198.6 |   55      |    10     |
  |      201   |   50      |     7     |
  |      203   |   42      |     5     |
  |      205.4 |   36      |     3     |
  |      207.7 |   28      |     2     |
  |      210   |   13      |     1     |
  |      212   |    0      |     0     |
  +------------+-----------+-----------+

Groening undertook this investigation in order to employ the thermometer
as an alcoholmeter in the distillation of spirits; for which purpose he
thrust the bulb of the thermometer through a cork, inserted into a tube
fixed in the capital of the still. The state of the barometer ought also
to be considered in making comparative experiments of this kind. Since,
by this method, the alcoholic content may be compared with the
temperature of the vapour that passes over at any time, so, also, the
contents of the whole distillation may be found approximately; and the
method serves as a convenient means of making continual observations on
the progress of the distillation.

The temperature, corresponding to a certain per centage of alcohol in
vapour, suggests the employment of a convenient method for obtaining, at
one process, a spirit as free from water as it can be made by mere
distillation. We place over the top of the capital a water-bath, and
lead up through it a spiral pipe from the still, which there passes
obliquely downwards, and proceeds to the refrigeratory. If this bath be
maintained, by a constant influx of cold water, at a certain
temperature, only the alcoholic vapour corresponding to that temperature
will pass over, and the rest will be recondensed and returned into the
still. If we keep the temperature of the water at 174 deg., for example, the
spirituous vapour which passes over will contain 90 per cent. of
absolute alcohol, according to the preceding table. The skilful use of
this principle constitutes the main improvement in modern distilleries.
See DISTILLATION and STILL.

Another method for concentrating alcohol is that discovered by
Soemmering, founded upon the property of ox bladders to allow water to
pass through and evaporate out of them, but not to permit alcohol to
transpire, or only in a slight degree. Hence, if an ox's bladder is
filled with spirit of wine, well tied at the mouth, and suspended in a
warm place, the water will continually exhale, and the alcohol will
become nearly anhydrous; for in this way alcohol of 97 or 98 per cent.
may be obtained.

According to Soemmering, we should take for this purpose the bladder of
an ox or a calf, soak it for some time in water, then inflate it and
free it from the fat and the attached vessels; which is to be also done
to the other surface, by turning it inside out. After it is again
inflated and dried, we must smear over the outer side twice, and the
inner side four times, with a solution of isinglass, by which its
texture is made closer, and the concentration of the alcohol goes on
better. A bladder so prepared may serve more than a hundred times. It
must be charged with the spirits to be concentrated, leaving a small
space vacant, it is then to be tightly bound at the mouth, and suspended
in a warm situation, at a temperature of 122 deg. Fahr., over a sand-bath,
or in the neighbourhood of an oven. The surface of the bladder remains
moist with the water, as long as the sp. gr. of the contained spirit is
greater than 0.952. Weak spirit loses its water quicker than strong; but
in from 6 to 12 hours the alcohol may be concentrated, when a suitable
heat is employed. This economical method is particularly applicable in
obtaining alcohol for the preparation of varnishes. When the alcohol is
to serve for other purposes, it must be freed, by distillation, from
certain matters dissolved out of the bladder. Alcohol may likewise be
strengthened, as Soemmering has ascertained when the vessel that contains
the spirit is bound over with a bladder which does not come into contact
with the liquid. Thus, too, all other liquors containing alcohol and
water, as wine, cider, &c., may be made more spirituous.

To procure absolute alcohol, we must take chloride of calcium recently
fused, reduce it to coarse powder, and mix it with its own weight of
spirit of wine, of sp. gr. 0.833, in a bottle, which is to be well
stoppered, and to be agitated till the salt is dissolved. The clear
solution is to be poured into a retort, and half of the volume of the
alcohol employed, or so much as has the sp. gr. 0.791 at 68 deg. Fahr., is
to be distilled off at a gentle heat. Quicklime has also been employed
for the same purpose, but it is less powerful and convenient. Alcohol,
nearly free from water, may be obtained without distillation, by adding
dry carbonate of potash to a spirit of wine, of sp. gr. 0.825. The water
combines with the potash, and falls to the bottom in a dense liquid,
while the pure spirit floats on the surface. This contains however a
little alkali, which can only be separated by distillation.

Anhydrous alcohol is composed by weight of 52.66 carbon, 12.90 hydrogen,
and 34.44 of oxygen. It has a very powerful attraction for water, and
absorbs it from the atmosphere; therefore it must be kept in well-closed
vessels. It also robs vegetable and animal bodies of their moisture; and
hence common alcohol is employed for preserving anatomical preparations.
Alcohol is a solvent for many substances: resins, essential oils,
camphor, are abundantly dissolved by it, forming varnishes, perfumed
spirits, &c. The solution of a resin or essential oil in alcohol becomes
milky on the addition of water, which, by its attraction for alcohol,
separates these substances. Several salts, especially the deliquescent,
are dissolved by it, and some of them give a colour to its flame; thus,
the solutions of the salts of strontia in alcohol burn with a crimson
flame, those of copper and borax green, lime reddish, and baryta yellow.

When water is mixed with alcohol, heat and a condensation of volume are
the result; these effects being greatest with 54 per cent. of alcohol
and 46 of water, and thence decreasing with a greater proportion of
water. For alcohol which contains 90 per cent. of water, this
condensation amounts to 1.94 per cent. of the volume; for 80 per cent.,
2.87; for 70 per cent., 3.44; for 60 per cent., 3.73; for 40 per cent.,
3.44; for 30 per cent., 2.72; for 20 per cent., 1.72; for 10 per cent.,
0.72. Hence, to estimate the quantity of alcohol in any spirit it is
necessary that the specific gravity be ascertained for each determinate
proportion of alcohol and water that are mixed together. When this is
done, we may, by means of an areometer constructed for liquids lighter
than water, determine the strength of the spirit, either by a scale of
specific gravities or by an arbitrary graduation corresponding to
certain commercial objects, and thus we may determine the per centage of
alcohol in whisky or brandy of any strength or purity. An areometer
intended for this use has been called an alcoholmeter, in particular
when the scale of it is so graduated that, instead of the specific
gravity, it indicates immediately the per centage of anhydrous alcohol
in a given weight or volume of the liquid. The scale graduated according
to the per centage of pure alcohol by weight, constitutes the
alcoholmeter of Richter; and that by the per centage in volume, the
alcoholmeter of Tralles and Gay Lussac.

As liquors are sold in general by the measure, not by the weight, it is
convenient, therefore, to know the alcoholic content of the mixtures in
the per centage by volume. Tralles has constructed new tables upon the
principles of those of Gilpin, in which the proportion is given by
volume, and anhydrous alcohol is assumed for the basis; which, at 60 deg.
Fahr., has a specific gravity of 0.7939 compared with water at its
maximum density, or a specific gravity 0.7946 compared with water of the
temperature of 60 deg. Fahr. Gilpin's alcohol of 0.825 contains 92.6 per
cent. by volume of anhydrous alcohol.

The following table exhibits the per centage of anhydrous alcohol by
volume, at a temperature of 60 deg. Fahr., in correspondence with the
specific gravities of the spirits, water being considered at 60 deg. Fahr.
to have a specific gravity of 0.9991.

Alcoholmetrical Table of Tralles.

  +------------+------------+----------+
  |Alcohol in  |  Specific  |Difference|
  |100 measures|  gravity   | of the   |
  | of spirit. |at 60 deg. Fahr.| sp. gr.  |
  +------------+------------+----------+
  |     0      |    9991    |          |
  |     1      |    9976    |    15    |
  |     2      |    9961    |    15    |
  |     3      |    9947    |    14    |
  |     4      |    9933    |    14    |
  |     5      |    9919    |    14    |
  |     6      |    9906    |    13    |
  |     7      |    9893    |    13    |
  |     8      |    9881    |    12    |
  |     9      |    9869    |    12    |
  |    10      |    9857    |    12    |
  |    11      |    9845    |    12    |
  |    12      |    9834    |    11    |
  |    13      |    9823    |    11    |
  |    14      |    9812    |    11    |
  |    15      |    9802    |    10    |
  |    16      |    9791    |    11    |
  |    17      |    9781    |    10    |
  |    18      |    9771    |    10    |
  |    19      |    9761    |    10    |
  |    20      |    9751    |    10    |
  |    21      |    9741    |    10    |
  |    22      |    9731    |    10    |
  |    23      |    9720    |    11    |
  |    24      |    9710    |    10    |
  |    25      |    9700    |    10    |
  |    26      |    9689    |    11    |
  |    27      |    9679    |    10    |
  |    28      |    9668    |    11    |
  |    29      |    9657    |    11    |
  |    30      |    9646    |    11    |
  |    31      |    9634    |    12    |
  |    32      |    9622    |    12    |
  |    33      |    9609    |    13    |
  |    34      |    9596    |    13    |
  |    35      |    9583    |    13    |
  |    36      |    9570    |    13    |
  |    37      |    9556    |    14    |
  |    38      |    9541    |    15    |
  |    39      |    9526    |    15    |
  |    40      |    9510    |    16    |
  |    41      |    9494    |    16    |
  |    42      |    9478    |    16    |
  |    43      |    9461    |    17    |
  |    44      |    9444    |    17    |
  |    45      |    9427    |    17    |
  |    46      |    9409    |    18    |
  |    47      |    9391    |    18    |
  |    48      |    9373    |    18    |
  |    49      |    9354    |    19    |
  |    50      |    9335    |    19    |
  |    51      |    9315    |    20    |
  |    52      |    9295    |    20    |
  |    53      |    9275    |    20    |
  |    54      |    9254    |    21    |
  |    55      |    9234    |    20    |
  |    56      |    9213    |    21    |
  |    57      |    9192    |    21    |
  |    58      |    9170    |    22    |
  |    59      |    9148    |    22    |
  |    60      |    9126    |    22    |
  |    61      |    9104    |    22    |
  |    62      |    9082    |    22    |
  |    63      |    9059    |    23    |
  |    64      |    9036    |    23    |
  |    65      |    9013    |    23    |
  |    66      |    8989    |    24    |
  |    67      |    8965    |    24    |
  |    68      |    8941    |    24    |
  |    69      |    8917    |    24    |
  |    70      |    8892    |    25    |
  |    71      |    8867    |    25    |
  |    72      |    8842    |    25    |
  |    73      |    8817    |    25    |
  |    74      |    8791    |    26    |
  |    75      |    8765    |    26    |
  |    76      |    8739    |    26    |
  |    77      |    8712    |    27    |
  |    78      |    8685    |    27    |
  |    79      |    8658    |    27    |
  |    80      |    8631    |    27    |
  |    81      |    8603    |    28    |
  |    82      |    8575    |    28    |
  |    83      |    8547    |    28    |
  |    84      |    8518    |    29    |
  |    85      |    8488    |    30    |
  |    86      |    8458    |    30    |
  |    87      |    8428    |    30    |
  |    88      |    8397    |    31    |
  |    89      |    8365    |    32    |
  |    90      |    8332    |    33    |
  |    91      |    8299    |    33    |
  |    92      |    8265    |    34    |
  |    93      |    8230    |    35    |
  |    94      |    8194    |    36    |
  |    95      |    8157    |    37    |
  |    96      |    8118    |    39    |
  |    97      |    8077    |    41    |
  |    98      |    8034    |    43    |
  |    99      |    7988    |    46    |
  |   100      |    7939    |    49    |
  +------------+------------+----------+

_Remarks on the preceding Table of Alcohol._

The third column of this table exhibits the differences of the specific
gravities, which give the denominator of the fraction for such densities
as are not found sufficiently near in the table; and the difference of
their numerators is the next greatest to the density found in the table.
For example: if the specific gravity of the liquor found for 60 deg. Fahr. =
9605 (the per centage will be between 33 and 34), the difference from
9609 (which is the next greatest number in the table) = 4, and the
fraction is 4/13; therefore the true per centage is 33-4/13. From the
construction of this table the per centage of alcohol by weight may also
be found. For instance: we multiply the number representing the
_volumes_ of alcohol (given in the table for any determinate specific
gravity of the mixture) by the specific gravity of the pure alcohol,
that is, by 7939, and the product is the number of pounds of alcohol in
so many pounds as the specific gravity multiplied by 100 gives. Thus, in
the mixture of 9510 specific gravity, there are 40 measures of alcohol;
hence there are also in 95,100 pounds of this spirit 7939 + 40 = 31.756
pounds of alcohol; and in 100 pounds of the spirits of 0.9510 specific
gravity, 33.39 pounds of alcohol are contained.

As the preceding table gives the true alcoholic content when the portion
of spirit under trial has the normal temperature of 60 deg. Fahr., the
following table gives the per centage of alcohol for the specific
gravities corresponding to the accompanying temperatures.

For example: if we have a spirituous liquor at 80 deg. Fahr., whose specific
gravity is 0.9342, the alcohol present is 45 per cent. of the volume, or
that specific gravity at that temperature is equal to the specific
gravity 0.9427 at the normal temperature of 60 deg. Fahr. This table may
also be employed for every degree of the thermometer and every per
centage, so as to save computation for the intervals. It is evident from
inspection that a difference of 5 deg. Fahr. in the temperature changes the
specific gravity of the liquor by a difference nearly equal to 1 volume
per cent. of alcohol; thus at 35 deg. and 85 deg. Fahr. the very same specific
gravity of the liquor shows nearly 10 volumes per cent. of alcohol more
or less; the same, for example, at 60 and 40 per cent.

  +-------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
  |Alcohol|                       Temperature.                        |
  |  per  +----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
  | cent. | 30 deg.| 35 deg.| 40 deg.| 45 deg.| 50 deg.| 55 deg.| 60 deg.| 65 deg.| 70 deg.| 75 deg.| 80 deg.| 85 deg.|
  |       |  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|  F.|
  +-------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
  |    0  |9994|9997|9997|9998|9997|9994|9991|9987|9991|9976|9970|9962|
  |    5  |9924|9926|9926|9926|9925|9922|9919|9915|9909|9903|9897|9889|
  |   10  |9868|9869|9868|9867|9865|9861|9857|9852|9845|9839|9831|9823|
  |   15  |9823|9822|9820|9817|9813|9807|9802|9796|9788|9779|9771|9761|
  |   20  |9786|9782|9777|9772|9766|9759|9751|9743|9733|9722|9711|9700|
  |   25  |9753|9746|9738|9729|9720|9709|9700|9690|9678|9665|9652|9638|
  |   30  |9717|9707|9695|9684|9672|9659|9646|9632|9618|9603|9588|9572|
  |   35  |9671|9658|9644|9629|9614|9599|9583|9566|9549|9532|9514|9495|
  |   40  |9615|9598|9581|9563|9546|9528|9510|9491|9472|9452|9433|9412|
  |   45  |9544|9525|9506|9486|9467|9447|9427|9406|9385|9364|9342|9320|
  |   50  |9460|9440|9420|9399|9378|9356|9335|9313|9290|9267|9244|9221|
  |   55  |9368|9347|9325|9302|9279|9256|9234|9211|9187|9163|9139|9114|
  |   60  |9267|9245|9222|9198|9174|9150|9126|9102|9076|9051|9026|9000|
  |   65  |9162|9138|9113|9088|9063|9038|9013|8988|8962|8936|8909|8882|
  |   70  |9046|9021|8996|8970|8944|8917|8892|8866|8839|8812|8784|8756|
  |   75  |8925|8899|8873|8847|8820|8792|8765|8738|8710|8681|8652|8622|
  |   80  |8798|8771|8744|8716|8688|8659|8631|8602|8573|8544|8514|8483|
  |   85  |8663|8635|8606|8577|8547|8517|8488|8458|8427|8396|8365|8333|
  |   90  |8517|8486|8455|8425|8395|8363|8322|8300|8268|8236|8204|8171|
  +-------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+

The importance of extreme accuracy in determining the density of
alcoholic mixtures in the United Kingdom, on account of the great
revenue derived from them to the State, and their consequent high price
in commerce, induced the Lords of the Treasury a few years ago to
request the Royal Society to examine the construction and mode of
applying the instrument now in use for ascertaining and charging the
duty on spirits. This instrument, which is known and described in the
law as Sikes's hydrometer, possesses, in many respects, decided
advantages over those formerly in use. The committee of the Royal
Society state, that a definite mixture of alcohol and water is as
invariable in its value as absolute alcohol can be; and can be more
readily, and with equal accuracy, identified by that only quality or
condition to which recourse can be had in practice, namely, specific
gravity. The committee further proposed, that the standard spirit be
that which, consisting of alcohol and water alone, shall have a specific
gravity of 0.92 at the temperature of 62 deg. Fahr., water being unity at
the same temperature; or, in other words, that it shall at 62 deg. weigh
92/100 or 23/25 of an equal bulk of water at the same temperature.

This standard is rather weaker than the old proof, which was 12/13, or
0.923; or in the proportion of nearly 1.1 gallon of the present proof
spirit per cent. The proposed standard will contain nearly one half by
weight of absolute alcohol. The hydrometer ought to be so graduated as
to give the indication of strength; not upon an arbitrary scale, but in
terms of specific gravity at the temperature of 62 deg.

The committee recommend the construction of an equation table, which
shall indicate the same strength of spirit at every temperature. Thus in
standard spirit at 62 deg. the hydrometer would indicate 920, which in this
table would give proof spirit. If that same spirit were cooled to 40 deg.,
the hydrometer would indicate some higher number; but which, being
combined in the table with the temperature as indicated by the
thermometer, should still give proof or standard spirit as the result.

It is considered advisable, in this and the other tables, not to express
the quality of the spirit by any number over or under proof, but to
indicate at once the number of gallons of standard spirit contained in,
or equivalent to, 100 gallons of the spirit under examination. Thus,
instead of saying 23 over proof, it is proposed to insert 123; and in
place of 35.4 under proof, to insert its difference to 100, or 64.6.

It has been considered expedient to recommend a second table to be
constructed, so as to show the bulk of spirit of any strength at any
temperature, relative to a standard bulk of 100 gallons at 62 deg. In this
table a spirit which had diminished in volume, at any given temperature,
0.7 per cent., for example, would be expressed by 99.3; and a spirit
which had increased at any given temperature 0.7 per cent., by 100.7.

When a sample of spirit, therefore, has been examined by the hydrometer
and thermometer, these tables will give first the proportion of standard
spirit at the observed temperature, and next the change of bulk of such
spirit from what it would be at the standard temperature. Thus, at the
temperature of 51 deg., and with an indication (sp. gr.) of 8240, 100
gallons of the spirit under examination would be shown by the first
table to be equal to 164.8 gallons of standard spirit of that
temperature; and by the second table it would appear that 99.3 gallons
of the same spirit would become 100 at 62 deg., or in reality contain the
164.8 gallons of spirit in that state only in which it is to be taxed.

But as it is considered that neither of these tables can alone be used
for charging the duty (for neither can express the actual quantity of
spirit of a specific gravity of 0.92 at 62 deg. in 100 gallons of stronger
or weaker spirit at temperatures above or below 62 deg.), it is considered
essential to have a third table, combining the two former, and
expressing this relation directly, so that upon mere inspection it shall
indicate the proportion of standard spirit in 100 gallons of that under
examination in its then present state. In this table the quantities
should be set down in the actual number of gallons of standard spirit at
62 deg., equivalent to 100 of the spirit under examination; and the column
of quantities may be expressed by the term _value_, as it in reality
expresses the proportion of the only valuable substance present. As this
will be the only table absolutely necessary to be used with the
instrument for the purposes of the excise, it may, perhaps, be thought
unnecessary to print the former two.

The following specimen table has been given by the committee:--

  +-------------------------------++----------------------------+
  |       Temperature 45 deg.        ||       Temperature 75 deg.     |
  +--------------+---------+------++-----------+---------+------+
  |Indication.[3]|Strength.|Value.||Indication.|Strength.|Value.|
  +--------------+---------+------++-----------+---------+------+
  |    9074      |  114.5  |      ||    8941   |   114.5 |      |
  |       7      |  114.3  |      ||       4   |   114.3 |      |
  |       9      |  114.2  |      ||       5   |   114.2 |      |
  |      81      |  114.0  |      ||       8   |   114.0 |      |
  |       3      |  113.9  |      ||       9   |   113.9 |      |
  |       5      |  113.7  |      ||      52   |   113.7 |      |
  |       6      |  113.6  |      ||       3   |   113.6 |      |
  |       9      |  113.4  |      ||       6   |   113.4 |      |
  |      90      |  113.3  |      ||       7   |   113.3 |      |
  |       3      |  113.1  |      ||       9   |   113.1 |      |
  +--------------+---------+------++-----------+---------+------+

  [3] By specific gravity.

The mixture of alcohol and water, taken as spirit in Mr. Gilpin's
tables, is that of which the specific gravity is 0.825 at 60 deg. Fahr.,
water being unity at the same temperature. The specific gravity of water
at 60 deg. being 1000, at 62 deg. it is 99,981. Hence, in order to compare the
specific gravities given by Mr. Gilpin with those which would result
when the specific gravity of water at 62 deg. is taken at unity, all the
former numbers must be divided by 99,981.

Table of the Specific Gravities of different Mixtures, by Weight, of
Alcohol and Water, at different Temperatures; constructed by Mr. Gilpin,
for the use of the British Revenue on Spirits.

  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |Tem-  | Pure  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100  |
  |pera- | Alco- |Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|
  |ture, | hol.  |   5   |   10  |   15  |   20  |   25  |   30  |
  |Fahr. |       | Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |_Deg._|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
  |  30  |0.83896|0.84995|0.85957|0.86825|0.87585|0.88282|0.88921|
  |  35  | .83672| .84769| .85729| .86587| .87357| .88059| .88701|
  |  40  | .83445| .84539| .85507| .86361| .87184| .87838| .88481|
  |  45  | .83214| .84310| .85277| .86131| .86905| .87613| .88255|
  |  50  | .82977| .84076| .85042| .85902| .86676| .87384| .88030|
  |  55  | .82736| .83834| .84802| .85664| .86441| .87150| .87796|
  |  60  | .82500| .83599| .84568| .85430| .86208| .86918| .87569|
  |  65  | .82262| .83362| .84334| .85193| .85976| .86686| .87337|
  |  70  | .82023| .83124| .84092| .84951| .85736| .86451| .87105|
  |  75  | .81780| .82878| .83851| .84710| .85496| .86212| .86864|
  |  80  | .81530| .82631| .83603| .84467| .85248| .85966| .86622|
  |  85  | .81291| .82396| .83371| .84243| .85036| .85757| .86411|
  |  90  | .81044| .82150| .83126| .84001| .84797| .85518| .86172|
  |  95  | .80794| .81900| .82877| .83753| .84550| .85272| .85928|
  | 100  | .80548| .81657| .82630| .83513| .84038| .85031| .85688|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |Tem-  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100   |  100  |  100  |
  |pera- |Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol |Alcohol|Alcohol|
  |ture, |   35  |   40  |   45  |   50  |   55   |   60  |   65  |
  |Fahr. | Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water. | Water.| Water.|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |_Deg._|       |       |       |       |        |       |       |
  |  30  |0.89511|0.90054|0.90558|0.91023|0.91449 |0.91847|0.92217|
  |  35  | .89294| .89839| .90345| .90811| .91241 | .91640| .92009|
  |  40  | .89073| .89617| .90127| .90596| .91026 | .91428| .91799|
  |  45  | .88849| .89396| .89909| .90380| .90812 | .91211| .91584|
  |  50  | .88626| .89174| .89684| .90160| .90596 | .90997| .91370|
  |  55  | .88393| .88945| .89458| .89933| .90367 | .90768| .91144|
  |  60  | .88169| .88720| .89232| .89707| .90144 | .90549| .90927|
  |  65  | .87938| .88490| .89006| .89479| .89920 | .90328| .90707|
  |  70  | .87705| .88254| .88773| .89252| .89695 | .90104| .90484|
  |  75  | .87466| .88018| .88538| .89018| .89464 | .89872| .90252|
  |  80  | .87228| .87776| .88301| .88781| .89225 | .89639| .90021|
  |  85  | .87021| .87590| .88120| .88609| .89043 | .89460| .89843|
  |  90  | .86787| .87360| .87889| .88376| .88817 | .89230| .89617|
  |  95  | .86542| .87114| .87654| .88146| .88588 | .89003| .89390|
  | 100  | .86302| .86879| .87421| .87915| .883671| .88769| .89158|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+

  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |Tem-  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100  |  100  |
  |pera- |Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|
  |ture, |   70  |   75  |   80  |   85  |   90  |   95  |  100  |
  |Fahr. | Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |_Deg._|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
  |  30  |0.92563|0.92889|0.93191|0.93474|0.93741|0.93991|0.94222|
  |  35  | .92355| .92680| .92986| .93274| .93541| .93790| .94025|
  |  40  | .92151| .92476| .92783| .93072| .93341| .93592| .93827|
  |  45  | .91937| .92264| .92570| .92859| .93131| .93382| .93621|
  |  50  | .91723| .92051| .92358| .92647| .92919| .93177| .93419|
  |  55  | .91502| .91837| .92145| .92436| .92707| .92963| .93208|
  |  60  | .91287| .91622| .91933| .92225| .92499| .92758| .93002|
  |  65  | .91066| .91400| .91715| .92010| .92283| .92546| .92794|
  |  70  | .90847| .91181| .91493| .91793| .92069| .92333| .92580|
  |  75  | .90617| .90952| .91270| .91569| .91849| .92111| .92364|
  |  80  | .90385| .90723| .91046| .91340| .91622| .91891| .92142|
  |  85  | .90209| .90558| .90882| .91186| .91465| .91729| .91969|
  |  90  | .89988| .90342| .90688| .90967| .91248| .91511| .91751|
  |  95  | .89763| .90119| .90443| .90747| .91029| .91290| .91531|
  | 100  | .89536| .89889| .90215| .90522| .90805| .91066| .91310|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |Tem-  |   95  |  90   |  85   |  80   |  75   |  70   |  65   |
  |pera- |Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|
  |ture, |  100  |  100  | 100   | 100   | 100   | 100   | 100   |
  |Fahr. | Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |_Deg._|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
  |  30  |0.94447|0.94675|0.94920|0.95173|0.95429|0.95681|0.95944|
  |  35  | .94249| .94484| .94734| .94988| .95246| .95502| .95772|
  |  40  | .94058| .94295| .94547| .94802| .95060| .95328| .95602|
  |  45  | .93860| .94096| .94348| .94605| .94871| .95143| .95423|
  |  50  | .93658| .93897| .94149| .94414| .94683| .94958| .95243|
  |  55  | .93452| .93696| .93948| .94213| .94486| .94767| .95057|
  |  60  | .93247| .93493| .93749| .94018| .94296| .94579| .94876|
  |  65  | .93040| .93285| .93546| .93822| .94099| .94388| .94689|
  |  70  | .92828| .93076| .93337| .93616| .93898| .94193| .94500|
  |  75  | .92613| .92865| .93132| .93413| .93695| .93989| .94301|
  |  80  | .92393| .92646| .92917| .93201| .93488| .93785| .94102|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |Tem-  |  60   |  55   |  50   |  45   |  40   |  35   |  30   |
  |pera- |Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|
  |ture, | 100   | 100   | 100   | 100   | 100   | 100   | 100   |
  |Fahr. | Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |_Deg._|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
  |  30  |0.96209|0.96470|0.96719|0.96967|0.97200|0.97418|0.97635|
  |  35  | .96048| .96315| .96579| .96840| .97086| .97319| .97556|
  |  40  | .95879| .96159| .96434| .96706| .96967| .97220| .97472|
  |  45  | .95703| .95993| .96280| .96563| .96840| .97110| .97384|
  |  50  | .95534| .95831| .96126| .96420| .96708| .96995| .97284|
  |  55  | .95357| .95662| .95966| .96272| .96575| .96877| .97181|
  |  60  | .95181| .95493| .95804| .96122| .96437| .96752| .97074|
  |  65  | .95000| .95318| .95635| .95962| .96288| .96620| .96959|
  |  70  | .94813| .95139| .95469| .95802| .96143| .96484| .96836|
  |  75  | .94623| .94957| .95292| .95638| .95987| .96344| .96708|
  |  80  | .94431| .94768| .95111| .95467| .95826| .96192| .96568|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |Tem-  |  25   |  20   |  15   |  10   |   5   |
  |pera- |Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|Alcohol|
  |ture, | 100   | 100   | 100   | 100   | 100   |
  |Fahr. | Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.| Water.|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  |_Deg._|       |       |       |       |       |
  |  30  |0.97860|0.98108|0.98412|0.98804|0.99334|
  |  35  | .97801| .98076| .98397| .98804| .99344|
  |  40  | .97737| .98033| .98373| .98795| .99345|
  |  45  | .97666| .97980| .98338| .98774| .99338|
  |  50  | .97589| .97920| .98293| .98745| .99316|
  |  55  | .97500| .97847| .98239| .98702| .99284|
  |  60  | .97410| .97771| .98176| .98654| .99244|
  |  65  | .97309| .97688| .98106| .98594| .99194|
  |  70  | .97203| .97596| .98028| .98527| .99134|
  |  75  | .97086| .97495| .97943| .98454| .99066|
  |  80  | .96963| .97385| .97845| .98367| .98991|
  +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Experiments were made, by direction of the committee, to verify Gilpin's
tables, which showed that the error introduced in ascertaining the
strength of spirits by tables founded on Gilpin's numbers must be quite
insensible in the practice of the revenue. The discrepancies thus
detected, on a mixture of a given strength, did not amount in any one
instance to unity in the fourth place of decimals. From a careful
inspection of such documents the committee are of opinion, that Gilpin's
tables possess a degree of accuracy far surpassing what could be
expected, and sufficiently perfect for all practical or scientific
purposes.

The following table is given by Mr. Lubbock, for converting the
_apparent_ specific gravity, or _indication_, into true specific
gravity:--

  +-----+-----------------------------------------+-----+
  |Indi-|      -        Temperature        +      |Indi-|
  | ca- +------+------+------+------+------+------+ ca- |
  |tion.|  30 deg. |  32 deg. |  37 deg. |  42 deg. |  47 deg. |  52 deg. |tion.|
  +-----+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+
  | .82 |.00083|.00078|.00065|.00052|.00039|.00025| .82 |
  | .83 |.00084|.00079|.00066|.00052|.00039|.00026| .83 |
  | .84 |.00085|.00080|.00066|.00053|.00039|.00026| .84 |
  | .85 |.00086|.00081|.00067|.00054|.00040|.00026| .85 |
  | .86 |.00087|.00082|.00068|.00054|.00040|.00027| .86 |
  | .87 |.00088|.00083|.00069|.00055|.00041|.00027| .87 |
  | .88 |.00089|.00084|.00070|.00055|.00041|.00027| .88 |
  | .89 |.00090|.00085|.00070|.00055|.00042|.00028| .89 |
  | .90 |.00091|.00085|.00071|.00056|.00042|.00028| .90 |
  | .91 |.00092|.00086|.00072|.00057|.00043|.00028| .91 |
  | .92 |.00093|.00087|.00073|.00058|.00043|.00029| .92 |
  | .93 |.00094|.00088|.00073|.00059|.00044|.00029| .93 |
  | .94 |.00095|.00089|.00074|.00059|.00044|.00029| .94 |
  | .95 |.00096|.00090|.00075|.00060|.00045|.00029| .95 |
  | .96 |.00097|.00091|.00076|.00060|.00045|.00030| .96 |
  | .97 |.00098|.00092|.00077|.00061|.00046|.00030| .97 |
  | .98 |.00099|.00093|.00077|.00062|.00046|.00030| .98 |
  | .99 |.00100|.00094|.00078|.00062|.00047|.00031| .99 |
  |1.00 |.00101|.00095|.00079|.00063|.00047|.00031|1.00 |
  +-----+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+

  +-----+-----------------------------------------+-----+
  |Indi-|      -        Temperature        +      |Indi-|
  | ca- +------+------+------+------+------+------+ ca- |
  |tion.|  57 deg. |  62 deg. |  67 deg. |  72 deg. |  77 deg. |  80 deg. |tion.|
  +-----+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+
  | .82 |.00012|      |.00011|.00024|.00035|.00042| .82 |
  | .83 |.00012|      |.00012|.00024|.00036|.00042| .83 |
  | .84 |.00013|      |.00012|.00024|.00036|.00043| .84 |
  | .85 |.00013|      |.00012|.00025|.00037|.00043| .85 |
  | .86 |.00013|      |.00012|.00025|.00037|.00044| .86 |
  | .87 |.00013|      |.00012|.00025|.00037|.00044| .87 |
  | .88 |.00013|      |.00012|.00026|.00038|.00045| .88 |
  | .89 |.00013|      |.00012|.00026|.00038|.00045| .89 |
  | .90 |.00014|      |.00013|.00026|.00039|.00046| .90 |
  | .91 |.00014|      |.00013|.00026|.00039|.00046| .91 |
  | .92 |.00014|      |.00013|.00027|.00040|.00047| .92 |
  | .93 |.00014|      |.00013|.00027|.00040|.00047| .93 |
  | .94 |.00014|      |.00013|.00027|.00040|.00048| .94 |
  | .95 |.00014|      |.00013|.00028|.00041|.00048| .95 |
  | .96 |.00014|      |.00013|.00028|.00041|.00049| .96 |
  | .97 |.00015|      |.00014|.00028|.00042|.00049| .97 |
  | .98 |.00015|      |.00014|.00028|.00042|.00050| .98 |
  | .99 |.00015|      |.00014|.00029|.00043|.00050| .99 |
  |1.00 |.00015|      |      |      |      |      |1.00 |
  +-----+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+

[Illustration: _Fig._ 5.]

The hydrometer constructed, under the directions of the Commissioners of
Excise, by Mr. Bate, has a scale of 4 inches in length divided into 100
parts, and 9 weights. It has thus a range of 900 divisions, and
expresses specific gravities at the temperature of 62 deg. Fahr. In order to
render this instrument so accurate a measurer of the specific gravity,
at the standard temperature, as to involve no error of an appreciable
amount, Mr. Bate has constructed the weights (which in this instrument
are immersed in the fluid of different specific gravities) so that each
successive weight should have an increase of bulk over the preceding
weight equal to that part of the stem occupied by the scale, and an
increase of weight sufficient to take the whole of the scale, and no
more, down to the liquid. This arrangement requires great accuracy of
workmanship, and enhances the price of the instrument. But it allows of
increased strength in the ball, where it is very much required, and it
gives, upon inspection only, the indication (apparent specific gravity)
by which the general table is to be examined and the result ascertained.
_Fig._ 5. represents this instrument and two of its nine ballast
weights. It comprehends all specific gravities between 820 and 1000. It
indicates true specific gravity with almost perfect accuracy at the
temperature of 62 deg. Fahr.; but it does not exclude other instruments from
being used in conjunction with tables. The latter are, in fact,
independent of the instrument, and may be used with gravimeters, or any
instrument affording indications by specific gravity at a given
temperature.

The commercial value of spirituous liquors being much lower in France
than in England, a less sensible instrument becomes sufficient for the
wants of that country. Baume's and Cartier's hydrometers, with short
arbitrary scales, are very much employed, but they have been lately
superseded by an ingenious and ready instrument contrived by M. Gay
Lussac, and called by him an _alcoometre_. He takes for the term of
comparison pure alcohol by volume, at the temperature of 15 deg. Cent., and
represents the strength of it by 100 _centimes_, or by unity.
Consequently, the strength of a spirituous liquid is the number of
centimes in volume of pure alcohol which that liquid contains at the
temperature of 15 deg. Cent. The instrument is formed like a common
hydrometer, and is graduated for the temperature of 15 deg. Cent. Its scale
is divided into 100 parts or degrees, each of which denotes a centime of
alcohol; the division 0 at the bottom of the stem corresponds to pure
water, and the division 100 at its top, to pure alcohol. When immersed
in a spirituous liquor at 15 deg. Cent. (59 deg. Fahr.) it announces its
strength directly. For example: if in spirits supposed at the
temperature of 15 deg. Cent. it sinks to the division 50, it indicates that
the strength of this liquor is 50 per cent., or that it contains 50
centimes of pure alcohol. In our new British proof spirit, it would sink
to nearly 57, indicating 57 by volume of pure alcohol, allowing for
condensation, or 50 by weight. A table of correction is given for
temperature, which he calls "Table of real strength of spirituous
liquors." The first vertical column of this table contains the
temperatures, from 0 deg. to 30 deg. Cent., and the first horizontal line the
indications of the alcoometre. In the same table we have most
ingeniously inserted a correction for the volume of the spirits when the
temperature differs from 15 deg. Cent. If we take 1000 litres or gallons,
measured at the temperature of 2 deg., of a spirituous liquor whose apparent
strength is 44^{c}; its real strength at 15 deg. will from the preceding
mode of correction be 49^{c}. On heating this liquid to 15 deg., in order to
find its real specific gravity or strength, its bulk will become
greater; and, instead of 1000 litres or gallons, which it measured at
2 deg., we shall have 1009 at 15 deg. C. This number is inscribed in smaller
characters in the same square cell with the real force, precisely under
49^{c}. All the numbers in small characters, printed under each _real
strength_, indicate the volume which 1000 litres of a spirituous liquor
would have, when measured at the temperature at which its apparent
strength is taken. In the above example, the quantity in litres or
gallons of pure alcohol contained in 1000 litres or gallons of the
spirits, measured at the temperature of 2 deg., will be, therefore,--1009
lit. x 0.49 = 494 lit. 41.

This quantity of pure alcohol, thus estimated, is called _richness of
spirit in alcohol_, or simply _richness_.

Let us take an example similar to the preceding, but at a higher
temperature than 15 deg. Cent. Suppose we have 1000 litres measured, at the
temperature of 25 deg., of spirits whose apparent strength is 53^{c}, what
is the real quantity of pure alcohol which this spirit contains at the
temperature of 15 deg.? We shall find in the table, first of all, that the
real strength of the spirits is 49^{c}.3. As to its bulk or volume, it
is very clear that the 1000 litres in cooling from 25 deg. to 15 deg., will
occupy a smaller space. This volume will be 993 litres; it is inscribed
directly below 49^{c}.3, the real strength. We shall therefore have of
pure alcohol, contained in the 1000 litres of spirits, measured at the
temperature of 25 deg., or their _richness_, 993 lit. x 0.493 = 489 lit. 55.

Alcometrical Table of real Strength, by M. Gay Lussac.

  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |Temper-|31^{c}|32^{c}|33^{c}|34^{c}|35^{c}|36^{c}|37^{c}|38^{c}|
  | ature |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |  C.   |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  | _Deg._|      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   10  | 33.0 |  34  |  35  |  36  |  37  |  38  |  39  |  40  |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   11  | 32.6 | 33.6 | 34.6 | 35.6 | 36.6 | 37.6 | 38.6 | 39.6 |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   12  | 32.2 | 33.2 | 34.2 | 35.2 | 36.2 | 37.2 | 38.2 | 39.2 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   13  | 31.8 | 32.8 | 33.8 | 34.8 | 35.8 | 36.8 | 37.8 | 38.8 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   14  | 31.4 | 32.4 | 33.4 | 34.4 | 35.4 | 36.4 | 37.4 | 38.4 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   15  |  31  |  32  |  33  |  34  |  35  |  36  |  37  |  38  |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   16  | 30.6 | 31.6 | 32.5 | 33.5 | 34.5 | 35.5 | 36.5 | 37.5 |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   17  | 30.2 | 31.2 | 32.1 | 33.1 | 34.1 | 35.1 | 36.1 | 37.1 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   18  | 29.8 | 30.8 | 31.7 | 32.7 | 33.7 | 34.7 | 35.7 | 36.7 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   19  | 29.4 | 30.4 | 31.3 | 32.3 | 33.3 | 34.3 | 35.3 | 36.3 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   20  |  29  |  30  | 30.9 | 31.9 | 32.9 | 33.9 | 34.9 | 35.9 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   21  | 28.6 | 29.6 | 30.5 | 31.5 | 32.5 | 33.5 | 34.5 | 35.5 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   22  | 28.2 | 29.2 | 30.1 | 31.1 | 32.1 | 33.1 | 34.1 | 35.1 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   23  | 27.8 | 28.8 | 29.7 | 30.7 | 31.7 | 32.7 | 33.7 | 34.7 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   24  | 27.4 | 28.4 | 29.3 | 30.3 | 31.3 | 32.3 | 33.3 | 34.3 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   25  |  27  |  28  | 28.9 | 29.9 | 30.9 | 31.9 | 32.9 | 33.9 |
  |       |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |Temper-|39^{c}|40^{c}|41^{c}|42^{c}|43^{c}|44^{c}|45^{c}|46^{c}|
  | ature |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |  C.   |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  | _Deg._|      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   10  |  41  |  42  |  43  |  44  |  45  |  46  | 46.9 | 47.9 |
  |       | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   11  | 40.6 | 41.6 | 42.6 | 43.6 | 44.6 | 45.6 | 46.6 | 47.6 |
  |       | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   12  | 40.2 | 41.2 | 42.2 | 43.2 | 44.2 | 45.2 | 46.2 | 47.2 |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   13  | 39.8 | 40.8 | 41.8 | 42.8 | 43.8 | 44.8 | 45.8 | 46.8 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   14  | 39.4 | 40.4 | 41.4 | 42.4 | 43.4 | 44.4 | 45.4 | 46.4 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   15  |  39  |  40  |  41  |  42  |  43  |  44  |  45  |  46  |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   16  | 38.5 | 39.5 | 40.6 | 41.6 | 42.6 | 43.6 | 44.6 | 45.6 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   17  | 38.1 | 39.1 | 40.2 | 41.2 | 42.2 | 43.2 | 44.9 | 45.2 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   18  | 37.7 | 38.7 | 39.8 | 40.8 | 41.8 | 42.8 | 43.8 | 44.9 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   19  | 37.3 | 38.3 | 39.4 | 40.4 | 41.4 | 42.5 | 43.5 | 44.5 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   20  | 36.9 | 37.9 |  39  |  40  |  41  | 42.1 | 43.1 | 44.1 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   21  | 36.5 | 37.5 | 38.6 | 39.6 | 40.6 | 41.7 | 42.7 | 43.7 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   22  | 36.1 | 37.1 | 38.2 | 39.2 | 40.2 | 41.3 | 42.3 | 43.3 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   23  | 35.7 | 36.7 | 37.8 | 38.8 | 39.8 | 40.9 | 41.9 | 42.9 |
  |       |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   24  | 35.3 | 36.3 | 37.4 | 38.4 | 39.4 | 40.5 | 41.5 | 42.5 |
  |       |  995 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   25  | 34.9 | 35.9 |  37  |  38  |  39  | 40.1 | 42.1 | 42.2 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |Temper-|47^{c}|48^{c}|49^{c}|50^{c}|51^{c}|52^{c}|53^{c}|54^{c}|
  | ature |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |  C.   |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  | _Deg._|      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   10  | 48.9 | 49.9 | 50.9 | 51.8 | 52.8 | 53.8 | 54.8 | 55.8 |
  |       | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   11  | 48.6 | 49.5 | 50.5 | 51.5 | 52.5 | 53.5 | 54.4 | 55.4 |
  |       | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   12  | 48.2 | 49.2 | 50.2 | 51.1 | 52.1 | 53.1 | 54.1 |  55  |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   13  | 47.8 | 48.8 | 49.8 | 50.8 | 51.8 | 52.7 | 53.7 | 54.7 |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   14  | 47.4 | 48.4 | 49.4 | 50.4 | 51.4 | 52.3 | 53.3 | 54.3 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1000 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   15  |  47  |  48  |  49  |  50  |  51  |  52  |  53  |  54  |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   16  | 46.6 | 47.6 | 48.6 | 49.6 | 50.6 | 51.6 | 52.6 | 53.6 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   17  | 46.2 | 47.2 | 48.2 | 49.2 | 50.3 | 51.3 | 52.3 | 53.3 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   18  | 45.9 | 46.9 | 47.9 | 48.9 | 49.9 | 50.9 | 51.9 | 52.9 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   19  | 45.5 | 46.5 | 47.5 | 48.5 | 49.5 | 50.6 | 51.6 | 52.6 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   20  | 45.1 | 46.1 | 47.2 | 48.2 | 49.2 | 50.2 | 51.2 | 52.2 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   21  | 44.8 | 45.8 | 46.8 | 47.8 | 48.8 | 49.8 | 50.8 | 51.8 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   22  | 44.3 | 45.3 | 46.4 | 47.4 | 48.4 | 49.4 | 50.4 | 51.4 |
  |       |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   23  | 43.9 | 44.9 |  46  |  47  |  48  | 49.1 | 50.1 | 51.1 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   24  | 43.6 | 44.6 | 45.6 | 46.6 | 47.6 | 48.7 | 49.7 | 50.7 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  693 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   25  | 43.2 | 44.2 | 45.2 | 46.3 | 47.3 | 48.3 | 49.3 | 50.3 |
  |       |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  992 |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |Temper-|55^{c}|56^{c}|57^{c}|58^{c}|59^{c}|60^{c}|61^{c}|62^{c}|
  | ature |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |  C.   |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  | _Deg._|      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   10  | 56.8 | 57.8 | 58.8 | 59.7 | 60.7 | 61.7 | 62.7 | 63.7 |
  |       | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   11  | 56.4 | 57.4 | 58.4 | 59.4 | 60.4 | 61.4 | 62.4 | 63.4 |
  |       | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   12  |  56  |  57  |  58  |  59  |  60  |  61  |  62  |  63  |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   13  | 55.7 | 56.7 | 57.7 | 58.7 | 59.7 | 60.7 | 61.7 | 62.7 |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   14  | 55.3 | 56.3 | 57.3 | 58.3 | 59.3 | 60.3 | 61.3 | 62.3 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   15  |  55  |  56  |  57  |  58  |  59  |  60  |  61  |  62  |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   16  | 54.6 | 55.6 | 56.6 | 57.6 | 58.6 | 59.6 | 60.6 | 61.7 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   17  | 54.3 | 55.3 | 56.3 | 57.3 | 58.3 | 59.3 | 60.3 | 61.3 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   18  | 53.9 | 54.9 | 55.9 | 56.9 | 57.9 | 58.9 | 59.9 |  61  |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   19  | 53.6 | 54.6 | 55.6 | 56.6 | 57.6 | 58.6 | 59.6 | 60.6 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   20  | 53.2 | 54.2 | 55.2 | 56.2 | 57.2 | 58.2 | 59.2 | 60.3 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   21  | 52.9 | 53.9 | 54.9 | 55.9 | 56.9 | 57.9 | 58.9 | 59.9 |
  |       |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   22  | 52.5 | 53.5 | 54.5 | 55.5 | 56.5 | 57.5 | 58.5 | 59.5 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   23  | 52.1 | 53.1 | 54.1 | 55.1 | 56.1 | 57.1 | 58.1 | 59.2 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  994 |  993 | 993  |  993 |  993 |  993 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   24  | 51.8 | 52.8 | 53.8 | 54.8 | 55.8 | 56.8 | 57.8 | 58.9 |
  |       |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  992 |  992 |  992 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   25  | 51.4 | 52.4 | 53.4 | 54.4 | 55.5 | 56.5 | 57.5 | 58.5 |
  |       |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |Temper-|63^{c}|64^{c}|65^{c}|66^{c}|67^{c}|68^{c}|69^{c}|70^{c}|
  | ature |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |  C.   |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  | _Deg._|      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   10  | 64.7 | 65.7 | 66.7 | 67.6 | 68.6 | 69.6 | 70.6 | 71.6 |
  |       | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   11  | 64.4 | 65.4 | 66.4 | 67.3 | 68.3 | 69.3 | 70.3 | 71.3 |
  |       | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   12  |  64  |  65  |  66  |  67  |  68  |  69  |  70  |  71  |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   13  | 63.7 | 64.7 | 65.7 | 66.7 | 67.7 | 68.7 | 69.6 | 70.6 |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   14  | 63.3 | 64.3 | 65.3 | 66.3 | 67.3 | 68.3 | 69.3 | 70.3 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   15  |  63  |  64  |  65  |  66  |  67  |  68  |  69  |  70  |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   16  | 62.7 | 63.7 | 64.7 | 65.7 | 66.7 | 67.7 | 68.7 | 69.7 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   17  | 62.3 | 63.3 | 64.3 | 65.3 | 66.3 | 67.3 | 68.3 | 69.3 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   18  |  62  |  63  |  64  |  65  |  66  |  67  |  68  |  69  |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   19  | 61.6 | 62.7 | 63.7 | 64.7 | 65.7 | 66.7 | 67.7 | 68.7 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   20  | 61.3 | 62.3 | 63.3 | 64.3 | 65.4 | 66.4 | 67.4 | 68.4 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   21  |  61  |  62  |  63  |  64  |  65  |  66  |  67  | 68.1 |
  |       |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   22  | 60.6 | 61.6 | 62.7 | 63.7 | 64.7 | 65.7 | 66.7 | 67.7 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   23  | 60.2 | 61.3 | 62.3 | 63.3 | 64.3 | 65.4 | 66.4 | 67.4 |
  |       |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   24  | 59.9 |  61  |  62  |  63  |  64  |  65  |  66  | 67.1 |
  |       |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   25  | 59.5 | 60.6 | 61.6 | 62.6 | 63.7 | 64.7 | 65.7 | 66.7 |
  |       |  992 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |Temper-|71^{c}|72^{c}|73^{c}|74^{c}|75^{c}|76^{c}|77^{c}|78^{c}|
  | ature |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |  C.   |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  | _Deg._|      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   10  | 72.6 | 73.5 | 74.5 | 75.5 | 76.5 | 77.5 | 78.5 | 79.5 |
  |       | 1004 | 1004 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   11  | 72.3 | 73.2 | 74.2 | 75.2 | 76.2 | 77.2 | 78.2 | 79.2 |
  |       | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   12  |  72  | 72.9 | 73.9 | 74.9 | 75.9 | 76.9 | 77.9 | 78.9 |
  |       | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   13  | 71.6 | 72.6 | 73.6 | 74.6 | 75.6 | 76.6 | 77.6 | 78.6 |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1092 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   14  | 71.3 | 72.3 | 73.3 | 74.3 | 75.3 | 76.3 | 77.3 | 78.3 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   15  |  71  |  72  |  73  |  74  |  75  |  76  |  77  |  78  |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   16  | 70.7 | 71.7 | 72.7 | 73.7 | 74.7 | 75.7 | 76.7 | 77.7 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   17  | 70.3 | 71.3 | 72.3 | 73.3 | 74.3 | 75.4 | 76.4 | 77.4 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   18  |  70  |  71  |  72  |  73  |  74  | 75.1 | 76.1 | 77.1 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   19  | 69.7 | 70.7 | 71.7 | 72.7 | 73.7 | 74.7 | 75.8 | 76.8 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   20  | 69.4 | 70.4 | 71.4 | 72.4 | 73.4 | 74.4 | 75.5 | 76.5 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   21  | 69.1 | 70.1 | 71.1 | 72.1 | 73.1 | 74.1 | 75.2 | 76.2 |
  |       |  995 |  995 |  995 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   22  | 68.8 | 69.8 | 70.8 | 71.8 | 72.8 | 73.8 | 74.8 | 75.9 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   23  | 68.4 | 69.4 | 70.5 | 71.5 | 72.5 | 73.5 | 74.5 | 75.5 |
  |       |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   24  | 68.1 | 69.1 | 70.1 | 71.2 | 72.2 | 73.2 | 74.2 | 75.2 |
  |       |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  991 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   25  | 67.8 | 68.8 | 69.8 | 70.8 | 71.8 | 72.8 | 73.9 | 74.9 |
  |       |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |Temper-|79^{c}|80^{c}|81^{c}|82^{c}|83^{c}|84^{c}|85^{c}|86^{c}|
  | ature |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |  C.   |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  | _Deg._|      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   10  | 80.5 | 81.5 | 82.4 | 83.4 | 84.4 | 85.4 | 86.4 | 87.4 |
  |       | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   11  | 80.2 | 81.2 | 82.2 | 83.1 | 84.1 | 85.1 | 86.1 | 87.1 |
  |       | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   12  | 79.9 | 80.9 | 81.9 | 82.9 | 83.9 | 84.8 | 85.8 | 86.8 |
  |       | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   13  | 79.6 | 80.6 | 81.6 | 82.6 | 83.6 | 84.6 | 85.5 | 86.5 |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   14  | 79.3 | 80.3 | 81.3 | 82.3 | 83.3 | 84.3 | 85.3 | 86.3 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   15  |  79  |  80  |  81  |  82  |  83  |  84  |  85  |  86  |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   16  | 78.7 | 79.7 | 80.7 | 81.7 | 82.7 | 83.7 | 84.7 | 85.7 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   17  | 78.4 | 79.4 | 80.4 | 81.4 | 82.4 | 83.4 | 84.4 | 85.4 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   18  | 78.1 | 79.1 | 80.1 | 81.1 | 82.1 | 83.1 | 84.1 | 85.2 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   19  | 77.8 | 78.8 | 79.8 | 80.8 | 81.9 | 82.9 | 83.9 | 84.9 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   20  | 77.5 | 78.5 | 79.5 | 80.5 | 81.6 | 82.6 | 83.6 | 84.6 |
  |       |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   21  | 77.2 | 78.2 | 79.2 | 80.2 | 81.3 | 82.3 | 83.3 | 84.3 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   22  | 76.9 | 77.9 | 78.9 | 79.9 |  81  |  82  |  83  |  84  |
  |       |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   23  | 76.6 | 77.6 | 78.6 | 79.6 | 80.7 | 81.7 | 82.7 | 83.8 |
  |       |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   24  | 76.3 | 77.3 | 78.3 | 79.3 | 80.4 | 81.4 | 82.4 | 83.5 |
  |       |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   25  |  76  |  77  |  78  |  79  | 80.1 | 81.1 | 82.1 | 83.2 |
  |       |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |  990 |  990 |  990 |  990 |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

  +-------+------+------+------+------+
  |Temper-|87^{c}|88^{c}|89^{c}|90^{c}|
  | ature |      |      |      |      |
  |  C.   |      |      |      |      |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+
  | _Deg._|      |      |      |      |
  |   10  | 88.3 | 89.3 | 90.2 | 91.2 |
  |       | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 | 1005 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   11  | 88   | 89   | 90   | 91   |
  |       | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 | 1004 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   12  | 87.8 | 88.7 | 89.7 | 90.7 |
  |       | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 | 1003 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   13  | 87.5 | 88.5 | 89.5 | 90.5 |
  |       | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 | 1002 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   14  | 87.3 | 88.2 | 89.2 | 90.2 |
  |       | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 | 1001 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   15  |  87  |  88  |  89  |  90  |
  |       | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   16  | 86.7 | 87.7 | 88.7 | 89.7 |
  |       |  999 |  999 |  999 |  999 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   17  | 86.4 | 87.4 | 88.4 | 89.5 |
  |       |  998 |  998 |  998 |  998 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   18  | 86.2 | 87.2 | 88.2 | 89.2 |
  |       |  997 |  997 |  997 |  997 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   19  | 85.9 | 86.9 | 87.9 | 88.9 |
  |       |  996 |  996 |  996 |  996 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   20  | 85.6 | 86.6 | 87.7 | 88.7 |
  |       |  995 |  995 |  995 |  995 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   21  | 85.3 | 86.4 | 87.4 | 88.4 |
  |       |  994 |  994 |  994 |  994 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   22  |  85  | 86.1 | 87.1 | 88.2 |
  |       |  993 |  993 |  993 |  993 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   23  | 84.8 | 85.8 | 86.8 | 87.9 |
  |       |  992 |  992 |  992 |  992 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   24  | 84.5 | 85.5 | 86.5 | 87.6 |
  |       |  991 |  991 |  991 |  991 |
  |       +------+------+------+------+
  |   25  | 84.2 | 85.2 | 86.3 | 87.4 |
  |       |  990 |  990 |  990 |  990 |
  +-------+------+------+------+------+

I consider the preceding table, which I have extracted from the longer
tables of M. Gay Lussac, as an important addition to the resources of
British dealers and manufacturing chemists. With the aid of his little
instrument, which may be got for a trifle from its ingenious maker, M.
Collardeau, Rue Faubourg St. Martin, at Paris, or constructed by one of
the London hydrometer artists, the per centage of real alcohol, and the
real value of any spirituous liquor, may be determined to sufficient
nicety for most purposes, in a far easier manner than by any instruments
now used in this country. It has been adopted by the Swedish government,
with M. Gay Lussac's tables.

M. Gay Lussac's table gives, by inspection, the true bulk of the spirits
as corrected for temperature; that is, their volume, if of the normal
temperature of 15 deg. Cent. (59 deg. Fahr.). Now this is important information;
for, if a person buys 1000 gallons of spirits in hot weather, and pays
for them exactly according to their strength corrected for temperature,
he will not have 1000 gallons when the weather is in its mean state. He
may lose, in this way, several gallons without being aware of it from
his hydrometer.

Sometimes, after moist autumns, when damaged grain abounds, the alcohol
distilled from its fermented wash contains a peculiar volatile body.
When we apply our nose to this species of spirits in its hot state, the
volatile substance dissolved in it irritates the eyes and nostrils: it
has very nearly the same smell as an alcoholic solution of cyanogen, as
any chemist may discover by standing near the discharge pipe of the
refrigeratory worm of a raw-grain whisky still. Such spirits intoxicate
more strongly than pure spirits of the same strength, and excite, in
many persons, even temporary frenzy. It is a volatile fatty matter, of a
very fetid odour, when obtained by itself, as I have procured it in cold
weather at some of the great distilleries in Scotland. It does not
combine with bases. At the end of a few months, it spontaneously
decomposes in the spirits, and leaves them in a less nauseous and
noxious state. By largely diluting the spirits with water, and
distilling at a moderate temperature, the greater part of this oil may
be separated. Part of it comes over with the strongest alcohol, and part
with the latter runnings, which are called by the distillers strong and
weak feints. The intermediate portion is purer spirit. The feints are
always more or less opalescent, or become so on dilution with water, and
then throw up an oily pellicle upon their surface. The charcoals of
light wood, such as pine or willow, well calcined, and infused in
sufficient quantity with the spirits prior to rectification, will
deprive them of the greater part of that oily contamination. Animal
charcoal, well calcined, has also been found useful; but it must be
macerated for some time with the empyreumatic spirits, before
distillation. Another mode of separating that offensive oil is, to
agitate the impure spirits with a quantity of a fat oil, such as olive
oil, or oil of almonds, to decant off the oil, and re-distil the spirits
with a little water.

Some foreign chemists direct empyreumatic or rank spirits, to be
rectified with the addition of chloride of lime. I have tried this
method in every way, and on a considerable scale, but never found the
spirits to be improved by it. They were rather deteriorated. See
_Brandy_, _Distillation_, _Fermentation_, _Gin_, _Rum_, _Whisky_.

Anhydrous or absolute alcohol, when swallowed, acts as a mortal poison,
not only by its peculiar stimulus on the nervous system, but by its
abstracting the aqueous particles from the soft tissue of the stomach,
with which it comes in contact, so as to destroy its organisation.
Alcohol of 0.812 consists, by experiments, of 3 atoms of carbon, 6 of
hydrogen, and 2 of oxygen; absolute alcohol consists, probably, of 2 of
carbon, 3 of hydrogen, and 1 of oxygen.


ALE. The fermented infusion of pale malted barley, usually combined with
infusion of hops. See BEER.


ALEMBIC, a STILL; which see.


ALEMBROTH, salt of. The salt of wisdom, of the alchemists; a compound of
bichloride of mercury and sal ammoniac, from which the old white
precipitate of mercury is made.


ALGAROTH, powder of. A compound of oxide and chloride of antimony, being
a precipitate obtained by pouring water into the acidulous chloride of
that metal.


ALIZARINE. See MADDER.


ALKALI. A class of chemical bodies, distinguished chiefly by their
solubility in water, and their power of neutralising acids, so as to
form saline compounds. The alkalis of manufacturing importance are,
ammonia, potash, soda, and quinia. These alkalis change the purple
colour of red cabbage and radishes to a green, the reddened tincture of
litmus to a purple, and the colour of turmeric and many other yellow
dyes to a brown. Even when combined with carbonic acid, the first three
alkalis exercise this discolouring power, which the alkaline earths,
lime and barytes, do not. The same three alkalis have an acrid, and
somewhat urinous taste; the first two are energetic solvents of animal
matter; and the three combine with oils, so as to form soaps. They unite
with water in every proportion, and also with alcohol; and the first
three combine with water after being carbonated.


ALKALIMETER. An instrument for measuring the alkaline force or purity of
any of the alkalis of commerce. It is founded on the principle, that the
quantity of real alkali present in any sample, is proportional to the
quantity of acid which a given weight of it can neutralize. See the
individual alkalis, POTASH, and SODA.


ALKANA, is the name of the root and leaves of _Lausania inermis_, which
have been long employed in the East, to dye the nails, teeth, hair,
garments, &c. The leaves, ground and mixed with a little limewater,
serve for dyeing the tails of horses in Persia and Turkey.


ALKANET, the root of. (_Anchusa tinctoria._) A species of bugloss,
cultivated chiefly in the neighbourhood of Montpellier. It affords a
fine red colour to alcohol and oils; but a dirty red to water. Its
principal use is for colouring ointments, cheeses, and _pommades_. The
spirituous tincture gives to white marble a beautiful deep stain.


ALLIGATION. An arithmetical formula, useful, on many occasions, for
ascertaining the proportion of constituents in a mixture, when they have
undergone no change of volume by chemical action. When alcoholic liquors
are mixed with water, there is a condensation of bulk, which renders
that arithmetical rule inapplicable. The same thing holds, in some
measure, in the union of metals by fusion. See ALLOY.


ALLOY. (_Alliage_, Fr.; _Legirung_, Germ.) This term formerly signified
a compound of gold and silver, with some metal of inferior value, but it
now means any compound of any two or more metals whatever. Thus, bronze
is an alloy of copper and tin; brass, an alloy of copper and zinc; and
type metal, an alloy of lead and antimony. All the alloys possess
metallic lustre, even when cut or broken to pieces; they are opaque; are
excellent conductors of heat and electricity; are frequently susceptible
of crystallising; are more or less ductile, malleable, elastic, and
sonorous. An alloy which consists of metals differently fusible is
usually malleable in the cold, and brittle when hot, as is exemplified
with brass and gong metal.

Many alloys consist of definite or equivalent proportions of the simple
component metals, though some alloys seem to form in any proportion,
like combinations of salt or sugar with water. It is probable that
peculiar properties belong to the equivalent or atomic ratio, as is
exemplified in the superior quality of brass made in that proportion.

One metal does not alloy indifferently with every other metal, but it is
governed in this respect by peculiar affinities; thus, silver will
hardly unite with iron, but it combines readily with gold, copper, and
lead. In comparing the alloys with their constituent metals, the
following differences may be noted; in general, the ductility of the
alloy is less than that of the separate metals, and sometimes in a very
remarkable degree; on the contrary, the alloy is usually harder than the
mean hardness of its constituents. The mercurial alloys or amalgams are,
perhaps, exceptions to this rule.

The specific gravity is rarely the mean between that of each of its
constituents, but is sometimes greater and sometimes less, indicating,
in the former case, an approximation, and in the latter, a recedure, of
the particles from each other in the act of their union. The following
tables of binary alloys exhibit this circumstance in experimental
detail:--

  Alloys having a density       Alloys having a density
  greater than the mean of      less than the mean of
  their constituents.           their constituents.

  Gold and zinc                 Gold and silver
  Gold and tin                  Gold and iron
  Gold and bismuth              Gold and lead
  Gold and antimony             Gold and copper
  Gold and cobalt               Gold and iridium
  Silver and zinc               Gold and nickel
  Silver and lead               Silver and copper
  Silver and tin                Silver and lead
  Silver and bismuth            Iron and bismuth
  Silver and antimony           Iron and antimony
  Copper and zinc               Iron and lead
  Copper and tin                Tin and lead
  Copper and palladium          Tin and palladium
  Copper and bismuth            Tin and antimony
  Lead and antimony             Nickel and arsenic
  Platinum and molybdenum       Zinc and antimony.
  Palladium and bismuth.

It would be hardly possible to infer the melting point of an alloy from
that of each of its constituent metals; but, in general, the fusibility
is increased by mutual affinity in their state of combination. Of this,
a remarkable instance is afforded in the fusible metal consisting of 8
parts of bismuth, 5 of lead, and 3 of tin, which melts at the heat of
boiling water or 212 deg. Fahr., though the melting point deduced from the
mean of its components should be 514 deg. This alloy may be rendered still
more fusible by adding a very little mercury to it, when it forms an
excellent material for certain anatomical injections, and for filling
the hollows of carious teeth. Nor do the colours of alloys depend, in
any considerable degree, upon those of the separate metals; thus, the
colour of copper, instead of being rendered paler by a large addition of
zinc, is thereby converted into the rich-looking pinchbeck metal.

By means of alloys, we multiply, as it were, the numbers of useful
metals, and sometimes give usefulness to such as are separately of
little value. Since these compounds can be formed only by fusion, and
since many metals are apt to oxidise readily at their melting
temperature, proper precautions must be taken in making alloys to
prevent this occurrence, which is incompatible with their formation.
Thus, in combining tin and lead, rosin or grease is usually put on the
surface of the melting metals, the carbon produced by the decomposition
of which protects them, in most cases, sufficiently from oxidisement.
When we wish to combine tin with iron, as in the tinning of cast-iron
tea kettles, we rub sal ammoniac upon the surfaces of the hot metals in
contact with each other, and thus exclude the atmospheric oxygen by
means of its fumes. When there is a notable difference in the specific
gravities of the metals which we wish to combine, we often find great
difficulties in obtaining homogeneous alloys; for each metal may tend to
assume the level due to its density, as is remarkably exemplified in
alloys of gold and silver made without adequate stirring of the melting
metals. If the mass be large, and slow of cooling after it is cast in an
upright cylindrical form, the metals sometimes separate, to a certain
degree, in the order of their densities. Thus, in casting large bells
and cannons with copper alloys, the bottom of the casting is apt to
contain too much copper and the top too much tin, unless very dexterous
manipulation in mixing the fused materials have been employed
immediately before the instant of pouring out the melted mass. When such
inequalities are observed, the objects are broken and re-melted, after
which they form a much more homogeneous alloy. This artifice of a double
melting is often had recourse to, and especially in casting the alloys
for the specula of telescopes.

When we wish to alloy three or more metals, we often experience
difficulties, either because one of the metals is more oxidable, or
denser, or more fusible, than the others, or because there is no direct
affinity between two of the metals. In the latter predicament, we shall
succeed better by combining the three metals, first in pairs, for
example, and then melting the two pairs together. Thus, it is difficult
to unite iron with bronze directly; but if, instead of iron, we use tin
plate, we shall immediately succeed, and the bronze, in this manner,
acquires valuable qualities from the iron. Thus, also, to render brass
better adapted for certain purposes, a small quantity of lead ought to
be added to it, but this cannot be done directly with advantage: it is
better to melt the lead first along with the zinc, and then to add this
alloy to the melting copper, or the copper to that alloy, and fuse them
together.

We have said that the difference of fusibility was often an obstacle to
metallic combination; but this circumstance may also be turned to
advantage in decomposing certain alloys by the process called
_eliquation_. By this means silver may be separated from copper, if a
considerable quantity of lead be first alloyed with the said copper;
this alloy is next exposed to a heat just sufficient to melt the lead,
which then sweats out, so to speak, from the pores of the copper, and
carries along with it the greater part of the silver, for which it has a
strong affinity. The lead and the silver are afterwards separated from
each other, in virtue of their very different oxidability, by the action
of heat and air.

One of the alloys most useful to the arts is brass; it is more ductile
and less easily oxidised than even its copper constituent,
notwithstanding the opposite nature of the zinc. This alloy may exist in
many different proportions, under which it has different names, as
tombac, similor, pinchbeck, &c. Copper and tin form, also, a compound of
remarkable utility, known under the names of hard brass, for the bushes,
steps, and bearings of the axles, arbours, and spindles in machinery;
and of bronze, bell-metal, &c. Gold and silver, in their pure state, are
too soft and flexible to form either vessels or coins of sufficient
strength and durability; but when alloyed with a little copper, they
acquire the requisite hardness and stiffness for these and other
purposes.

When we have occasion to unite several pieces of the same or of
different metals, we employ the process called _soldering_, which
consists in fixing together the surfaces by means of an interposed
alloy, which must be necessarily more fusible than the metal or metals
to be joined. That alloy must also consist of metals which possess a
strong affinity for the substances to be soldered together. Hence each
metal would seem to require a particular kind of solder, which is, to a
certain extent, true. Thus, the solder for gold trinkets and plate is an
alloy of gold and silver, or gold and copper; that of silver trinkets,
is an alloy of silver and copper; that of copper is either fine tin, for
pieces that must not be exposed to the fire, or a brassy alloy called
hard solder, of which the zinc forms a considerable proportion. The
solder of lead and tinplate is an alloy of lead and tin, and that of tin
is the same alloy with a little bismuth. Tinning, gilding, and silvering
may also be reckoned a species of alloys, since the tin, gold, and
silver are superficially united in these cases to other metals.

Metallic alloys possess usually more tenacity than could be inferred
from their constituents; thus, an alloy of twelve parts of lead with one
of zinc has a tenacity double that of zinc. Metallic alloys are much
more easily oxidised than the separate metals, a phenomenon which may be
ascribed to the increase of affinity for oxygen which results from the
tendency of the one of the oxides to combine with the other. An alloy of
tin and lead heated to redness takes fire, and continues to burn for
some time like a piece of bad turf.

Every alloy is, in reference to the arts and manufactures, a new metal,
on account of its chemical and physical properties. A vast field here
remains to be explored. Not above sixty alloys have been studied by the
chemists out of many hundred which may be made; and of these very few
have yet been practically employed. Very slight modifications often
constitute very valuable improvements upon metallic bodies. Thus, the
brass most esteemed by turners at the lathe contains from two to three
per cent. of lead; but such brass does not work well under the hammer;
and, reciprocally, the brass which is best under the hammer is too tough
for turning.

That metallic alloys tend to be formed in definite proportions of their
constituents is clear from the circumstance that the native gold of the
auriferous sands is an alloy with silver, in the ratios of 1 atom of
silver united to 4, 5, 6, 12 atoms of gold, but never with a fractional
part of an atom. Also, in making an amalgam of 1 part of silver with 12
or 15 of mercury, and afterwards squeezing the mixture through chamois
leather, the amalgam separates into 2 parts: one, containing a small
proportion of silver and much mercury, passes through the skin; and the
other, formed of 1 of silver and 8 of mercury, is a compound in definite
proportions, which crystallises readily, and remains in the knot of the
bag. An analogous separation takes place in the tinning of mirrors; for
on loading them with the weights, a liquid amalgam of tin is squeezed
out, while another amalgam remains in a solid form composed of tin and
mercury in uniform atomic proportions. But, as alloys are generally
soluble, so to speak, in each other, this definiteness of combination is
masked and disappears in most cases.

M. Chaudet has made some experiments on the means of detecting the
metals of alloys by the cupelling furnace, and they promise useful
applications. The testing depends upon the appearances exhibited by the
metals and their alloys when heated on a cupel. Pure tin, when heated
this way, fuses, becomes of a greyish black colour, fumes a little,
exhibits incandescent points on its surface, and leaves an oxide, which,
when withdrawn from the fire, is at first lemon-yellow, but when cold,
white. Antimony melts, preserves its brilliancy, fumes, and leaves the
vessel coloured lemon-yellow when hot, but colourless when cold, except
a few spots of a rose tint. Zinc burns brilliantly, forming a cone of
oxide; and the oxide, much increased in volume, is, when hot, greenish,
but when cold, perfectly white. Bismuth fumes, becomes covered with a
coat of melted oxide, part of which sublimes, and the rest enters the
pores of the cupel; when cold, the cupel is of a fine yellow colour,
with spots of a greenish hue. Lead resembles bismuth very much; the cold
cupel is of a lemon-yellow colour. Copper melts, and becomes covered
with a coat of black oxide; sometimes spots of a rose tint remain on the
cupel.

Alloys.--Tin 75, antimony 25, melt, become covered with a coat of black
oxide, have very few incandescent points; when cold, the oxide is nearly
black, in consequence of the action of the antimony: a 1/400 part of
antimony may be ascertained in this way in the alloy. An alloy of
antimony, containing tin, leaves oxide of tin in the cupel: a 1/100 part
of tin may be detected in this way. An alloy of tin and zinc gives an
oxide which, whilst hot, is of a green tint, and resembles philosophic
wool in appearance. An alloy containing 99 tin, 1 zinc, did not present
the incandescent points of pure tin, and gave an oxide of greenish tint
when cold. Tin 95, bismuth 5 parts, gave an oxide of a grey colour. Tin
and lead give an oxide of a rusty brown colour. An alloy of lead and
tin, containing only 1 per cent. of the latter metal, when heated, does
not expose a clean surface, like lead, but is covered at times with
oxide of tin. Tin 75, and copper 25, did not melt, gave a black oxide:
if the heat be much elevated, the under part of the oxide is white, and
is oxide of tin; the upper is black, and comes from the copper. The
cupel becomes of a rose colour. If the tin be impure from iron, the
oxide produced by it is marked with spots of a rust colour.

The degree of affinity between metals may be in some measure estimated
by the greater or less facility with which, when of different degrees of
fusibility or volatility, they unite, or with which they can, after
union, be separated by heat. The greater or less tendency to separate
into differently proportioned alloys, by long-continued fusion, may also
give some information upon this subject. Mr. Hatchett remarked, in his
elaborate researches on metallic alloys, that gold made standard with
the usual precautions, by silver, copper, lead, antimony, &c., and then
cast, after long fusion, into vertical bars, was by no means an uniform
compound; but that the top of the bar, corresponding to the metal at the
bottom of the crucible, contained the larger proportion of gold. Hence,
for a more thorough combination, two red-hot crucibles should be
employed, and the liquefied metals should be alternately poured from the
one into the other. To prevent unnecessary oxidisement from the air, the
crucibles should contain, besides the metal, a mixture of common salt
and pounded charcoal. The metallic alloy should also be occasionally
stirred up with a rod of pottery ware.

The most direct evidence of a chemical change having been effected in
alloys is, when the compound melts at a lower temperature than the mean
of its ingredients. Iron, which is nearly infusible, acquires almost the
fusibility of gold when alloyed with this precious metal. The analogy is
here strong with the increase of solubility which salts acquire by
mixture, as is exemplified in the difficulty of crystallising residuums
of saline solutions, or mother waters, as they are called.

In common cases the specific gravity affords a good criterion whereby to
judge of the proportion of two metals in an alloy. But a very fallacious
rule has been given in some respectable works for computing the specific
gravity that should result from the alloying of given quantities of two
metals of known densities, supposing no chemical condensation or
expansion of volume to take place. Thus, it has been taught, that if
gold and copper be united in equal weights, the computed specific
gravity is merely the arithmetical mean between the numbers denoting the
two specific gravities. Whereas, the specific gravity of any alloy must
be computed by dividing the sum of the two weights by the sum of the two
volumes, compared, for conveniency sake, to water reckoned unity. Or, in
another form, the rule may be stated thus:--Multiply the sum of the
weights into the products of the two specific-gravity numbers for a
numerator; and multiply each specific gravity-number into the weight of
the other body, and add the two products together for a denominator. The
quotient obtained by dividing the said numerator by the denominator, is
the truly computed mean specific gravity of the alloy. On comparing with
that density, the density found by experiment, we shall see whether
expansion or condensation of volume has attended the metallic
combination. Gold having a specific gravity of 19.36, and copper of
8.87, when they are alloyed in equal weights, give, by the fallacious
rule of the arithmetical mean of the densities (19.36 + 8.87)/2 = 14.11;
whereas the rightly computed mean density is only 12.16. It is evident
that, on comparing the first result with experiment, we should be led to
infer that there had been a prodigious condensation of volume, though
expansion has actually taken place. Let W, w be the two weights; P, p
the two specific gravities, then M, the mean specific gravity, is given
by the formula--

      (W + w) P p                   (P - p)^{2}
  M = ----------- [:.] 2[Delta] = - ----------- =
       P w + p W                       P + p

twice the error of the arithmetical mean; which is therefore always in
excess.


ALMOND. (_Amande_, Fr.; _Mandel_, Germ.) There are two kinds of almond
which do not differ in chemical composition, only that the bitter, by
some mysterious reaction of its constituents, generates in the act of
distillation a quantity of a volatile oil, which contains hydrocyanic
acid. Vogel obtained from bitter almonds 8.5 per cent. of husks. After
pounding the kernels, and heating them to coagulate the albumen, he
procured, by expression, 28 parts of an unctuous oil, which did not
contain the smallest particle of hydrocyanic acid. The whole of the oil
could not be extracted in this way. The expressed mass, treated with
boiling water, afforded sugar and gum, and, in consequence of the heat,
some of that acid. The sugar constitutes 6.5 per cent. and the gum 3.
The vegetable albumen extracted, by means of caustic potash, amounted to
30 parts: the vegetable fibre to only 5. The poisonous aromatic oil,
according to Robiquet and Boutron-Charlard, does not exist ready-formed
in the bitter almond, but seems to be produced under the influence of
ebullition with water. These chemists have shown that bitter almonds
deprived of their unctuous oil by the press, when treated first by
alcohol, and then by water, afford to neither of these liquids any
volatile oil. But alcohol dissolves out a peculiar white crystalline
body, without smell, of a sweetish taste at first, and afterwards
bitter, to which they gave the name of _amygdaline_. This substance does
not seem convertible into volatile oil.

Sweet almonds by the analysis of Boullay, consist of 54 parts of the
bland almond oil, 6 of uncrystallisable sugar, 3 of gum, 24 of vegetable
albumen, 24 of woody fibre, 5 of husks, 3.5 of water, 0.5 of acetic
acid, including loss. We thus see that sweet almonds contain nearly
twice as much oil as bitter almonds do.


ALMOND OIL. A bland fixed oil, obtained usually from bitter almonds by
the action of a hydraulic press, either in the cold, or aided by hot
iron plates. See OIL.


ALOE. A series of trials has been made within a few years at Paris to
ascertain the comparative strength of cables made of hemp and of the
aloe from Algiers; and they are said to have all turned to the advantage
of the aloe. Of cables of equal size, that made of aloe raised a weight
of 2,000 kilogrammes (2 tons nearly); that made of hemp, a weight of
only 400 kilogrammes. At the exposition of objects of national industry,
two years ago, in Brussels, I saw aloe cordage placarded, as being far
preferable to hempen. See ROPE.


ALUDEL. A pear-shaped vessel open at either end, of which a series are
joined for distilling mercury in Spain. See MERCURY.


ALUM. (_Alun_, Fr.; _Alaum_, Germ.) A saline body, consisting of the
earth of clay, called alumina by the chemists, combined with sulphuric
acid and potash, or sulphuric acid and ammonia, into a triple compound.
It occurs in the crystallised form of octahedrons, has an acerb subacid
taste, and reddens the blue colour of litmus or red cabbage.

Alum works existed many centuries ago at Roccha, formerly called Edessa,
in Syria, whence the ancient name of Roch alum given to this salt. It
was afterwards made at Foya Nova, near Smyrna, and in the neighbourhood
of Constantinople. The Genoese, and other trading people of Italy,
imported alum from these places into western Europe, for the use of the
dyers of red cloth. About the middle of the fifteenth century, alum
began to be manufactured at La Tolfa, Viterbo, and Volaterra, in Italy;
after which time the importation of oriental alum was prohibited by the
pope, as detrimental to the interests of his dominions. The manufacture
of this salt was extended to Germany at the beginning of the sixteenth
century, and to England at a somewhat later period, by Sir Thomas
Chaloner, in the reign of Elizabeth. In its pure state, it does not seem
to have been known to the ancients; for Pliny, in speaking of something
like plumose alum, says, that it struck a black colour with pomegranate
juice, which shows that the green vitriol was not separated from it. The
_stypteria_ of Dioscorides, and the _alumen_ of Pliny, comprehended,
apparently, a variety of saline substances, of which sulphate of iron,
as well as alumina, was probably a constituent part. Pliny, indeed,
says, that a substance called in Greek [Greek: Hygra], or watery,
probably from its very soluble nature, which was milk-white, was used
for dyeing wool of bright colours. This may have been the mountain
butter of the German mineralogists, which is a native sulphate of
alumina, of a soft texture, waxy lustre, and unctuous to the touch.

The only alum manufactories now worked in Great Britain, are those of
Whitby, in England, and of Hurlett and Campsie, near Glasgow, in
Scotland; and these derive the acid and earthy constituents of the salt
from a mineral called alum slate. This mineral has a bluish or
greenish-black colour, emits sulphurous fumes when heated, and acquires
thereby an aluminous taste. The alum manufactured in Great Britain
contains potash as its alkaline constituent; that made in France
contains, commonly, ammonia, either alone, or with variable quantities
of potash. Alum may in general be examined by water of ammonia, which
separates from its watery solutions its earthy basis, in the form of a
light flocculent precipitate. If the solution be dilute, this
precipitate will float long as an opalescent cloud.

If we dissolve alum in 20 parts of water, and drop this solution slowly
into water or caustic ammonia till this be nearly, but not entirely,
saturated, a bulky white precipitate will fall down, which, when
properly washed with water, is pure aluminous earth or clay, and dried
forms 10.82 per cent. of the weight of the alum. If this earth, while
still moist, be dissolved in dilute sulphuric acid, it will constitute,
when as neutral as possible, the sulphate of alumina, which requires
only two parts of cold water for its solution. If we now decompose this
solution, by pouring into it water of ammonia, there appears an
insoluble white powder, which is subsulphate of alumina, or basic alum;
and contains three times as much earth as exists in the neutral
sulphate. If, however, we pour into the solution of the neutral sulphate
of alumina a solution of sulphate of potash, a white powder will fall if
the solutions be concentrated, which is true _alum_; but if the
solutions be dilute, by evaporating their mixture, and cooling it,
crystals of alum will be obtained.

When newly precipitated alumina is boiled in a solution of alum, a
portion of the earth enters into combination with the salt, constituting
an insoluble compound, which falls in the form of a white powder. The
same combination takes place, if we decompose a boiling hot solution of
alum with a solution of potash, till the mixture appears nearly neutral
by litmus paper. This insoluble or basic alum exists native in the
alum-stone of Tolfa, near Civita Vecchia, and it consists in 100 parts
of 19.72 parts of sulphate of potash, 61.99 basic sulphate of alumina,
and 18.29 water. When this mineral is treated with a due quantity of
sulphuric acid, it dissolves, and is converted into the crystallisable
alum of commerce.

These experimental facts develope the principles of the manufacture of
alum, which is prosecuted under various modifications, for its important
uses in the arts. Alum seldom occurs ready-formed in nature;
occasionally, as an efflorescence on stones, and in certain mineral
waters in the East Indies. The alum of European commerce is fabricated
artificially, either from the alum schists or stones, or from clay. The
mode of manufacture differs according to the nature of these earthy
compounds. Some of them, such as the alum stone, contain all the
elements of the salt, but mixed with other matters, from which it must
be freed. The schists contain only the elements of two of the
constituents, namely, clay and sulphur, which are convertible into
sulphate of alumina, and this may be then made into alum by adding the
alkaline ingredient. To this class belong the alum slates, and other
analogous schists, containing brown coal.

1. _Manufacture of Alum from the Alum Stone._--The alum-stone is a rare
mineral, being found in moderate quantity at Tolfa, and in larger in
Hungary, at Bereghszasz, and Muszag, where it forms entire beds in a
hard substance, partly characterised by numerous cavities, containing
drusy crystallisations of alum-stone or basic alum. The larger lumps
contain more or fewer flints disseminated through them, and are,
according to their quality, either picked out to make alum, or are
thrown away. The sorted pieces are roasted or calcined, by which
operation apparently the hydrate of alumina, associated with the
sulphate of alumina, loses its water, and, as burnt clay, loses its
affinity for alum. It becomes, therefore, free; and during the
subsequent exposure to the weather the stone gets disintegrated, and the
alum becomes soluble in water.

The calcination is performed in common lime-kilns in the ordinary way.
In the regulation of the fire it is requisite, here, as with gypsum, to
prevent any fusion or running together of the stones, or even any
disengagement of sulphuric or sulphurous acids, which would cause a
corresponding defalcation in the product of alum. For this reason the
contact of the ignited stones with carbonaceous matter ought to be
avoided.

The calcined alum-stones, piled in heaps from 2 to 3 feet high, are to
be exposed to the weather, and meanwhile they must be continually kept
moist by sprinkling them with water. As the water combines with the alum
the stones crumble down, and fall, eventually, into a pasty mass, which
must be lixiviated with warm water, and allowed to settle in a large
cistern. The clear supernatant liquor, being drawn off, must be
evaporated, and then crystallised. A second crystallisation finishes the
process, and furnishes a marketable alum. Thus the Roman alum is made,
which is covered with a fine red film of peroxide of iron.

2. _Alum Manufacture from Alum Schist._--The greater portion of the alum
found in British commerce is made from alum-slate and analogous
minerals. This slate contains more or less iron pyrites, mixed with
coaly or bituminous matter, which is occasionally so abundant as to
render them somewhat combustible. In the strata of brown coal and
bituminous wood, where the upper layers lie immediately under clay beds,
they consist of the coaly substance rendered impure with clay and
pyrites. This triple mixture constitutes the essence of all good alum
schists, and it operates spontaneously towards the production of
sulphate of alumina. The coal serves to make the texture open, and to
allow the air and moisture to penetrate freely, and to change the
sulphur and iron present into acid and oxide. When these schists are
exposed to a high temperature in contact with air, the pyrites loses one
half of its sulphur, in the form of sublimed sulphur or sulphurous acid,
and becomes a black sulphuret of iron, which speedily attracts oxygen,
and changes to sulphate of iron, or green vitriol. The brown coal
schists contain, commonly, some green vitriol crystals spontaneously
formed in them. The sulphate of iron transfers its acid to the clay,
progressively, as the iron, by the action of the air with a little
elevation of temperature, becomes peroxidised; whereby sulphate of
alumina is produced. A portion of the green vitriol remains, however,
undecomposed, and so much the more as there may happen to be less of
other salifiable bases present in the clay slate. Should a little
magnesia or lime be present, the vitriol gets more completely
decomposed, and a portion of Epsom salt and gypsum is produced.

The manufacture of alum from alum schists may be distributed under the
six following heads:--1. The preparation of the alum slate. 2. The
lixiviation of the slate. 3. The evaporation of the lixivium. 4. The
addition of the saline ingredients, or the precipitation of the alum. 5.
The washing of the aluminous salts; and 6. The crystallisation.

1. _Preparation of the Alum Slate._--Some alum slates are of such a
nature that, being piled in heaps in the open air, and moistened from
time to time, they get spontaneously hot, and by degrees fall into a
pulverulent mass, ready to be lixiviated. The greater part, however,
require the process of ustulation, from which they derive many
advantages. The cohesion of the dense slates is thereby so much impaired
that their decomposition becomes more rapid; the decomposition of the
pyrites is quickened by the expulsion of a portion of the sulphur; and
the ready-formed green vitriol is partly decomposed by the heat, with a
transference of its sulphuric acid to the clay, and the production of
sulphate of alumina.

Such alum-slates as contain too little bitumen or coal for the roasting
process must be interstratified with layers of small coal or brushwood
over an extensive surface. At Whitby the alum rock, broken into small
pieces, is laid upon a horizontal bed of fuel, composed of brushwood;
but at Hurlett small coal is chiefly used for the lower bed. When about
four feet of the rock is piled on, fire is set to the bottom in various
parts; and whenever the mass is fairly kindled, more rock is placed over
the top. At Whitby this piling process is continued till the calcining
heap is raised to the height of 90 or 100 feet. The horizontal area is
also augmented at the same time till it forms a great bed nearly 200
feet square, having therefore about 100,000 yards of solid measurement.
The rapidity of the combustion is tempered by plastering up the crevices
with small schist moistened. When such an immense mass is inflamed, the
heat is sure to rise too high, and an immense waste of sulphur and
sulphuric acid must ensue. This evil has been noticed at the Whitby
works. At Hurlett the height to which the heap is piled is only a few
feet, while the horizontal area is expanded; which is a much more
judicious arrangement. At Whitby 130 tons of calcined schist produce on
an average 1 ton of alum. In this humid climate it would be advisable to
pile up on the top of the horizontal strata of brushwood or coal, and
schist, a pyramidal mass of schist, which having its surface plastered
smooth, with only a few air-holes, will protect the mass from the rains,
and at the same time prevent the combustion from becoming too vehement.
Should heavy rains supervene, a gutter must be scooped out round the
pile for receiving the aluminous lixivium, and conducting it into the
reservoir.

It may be observed, that certain alum schists contain abundance of
combustible matter, to keep up a suitable calcining heat after the fire
is once kindled; and therefore nothing is needed but the first layer of
brushwood, which, in this case, may be laid over the first bed of the
bituminous schist.

A continual, but very slow, heat, with a smothered fire, is most
beneficial for the ustulation of alum slate. When the fire is too brisk,
the sulphuret of iron may run with the earthy matters into a species of
slag, or the sulphur will be dissipated in vapour, by both of which
accidents the product of alum will be impaired. Those bituminous alum
schists which have been used as fuel under steam boilers have suffered
such a violent combustion that their ashes yield almost no alum. Even
the best regulated calcining piles are apt to burn too briskly in high
winds, and should have their draught-holes carefully stopped under such
circumstances. It may be laid down as a general rule, that the slower
the combustion the richer the roasted ore will be in sulphate of
alumina. When the calcination is complete, the heap diminishes to one
half its original bulk; it is covered with a light reddish ash, and is
open and porous in the interior, so that the air can circulate freely
throughout the mass. To favour this access of air, the masses should not
be too lofty; and in dry weather a little water should be occasionally
sprinkled on them, which, by dissolving away some of the saline matter,
will make the interior more open to the atmosphere.

When the calcined mineral becomes thoroughly cold, we may proceed to the
lixiviation. But as, from the first construction of the piles or beds
till their complete calcination, many weeks, or even months, may elapse,
care ought to be taken to provide a sufficient number or extent of them,
so as to have an adequate supply of material for carrying on the
lixiviating and crystallising processes during the course of the year,
or at least during the severity of the winter season, when the
calcination may be suspended, and the lixiviation becomes
unsatisfactory. The beds are known to be sufficiently decomposed by the
efflorescence of the salt which appears upon the stones, from the strong
aluminous taste of the ashes, and from the appropriate chemical test of
lixiviating an aliquot average portion of the mass, and seeing how much
alum it will yield to solution of muriate or sulphate of potash.

2. _The Lixiviation._--The lixiviation is best performed in stone-built
cisterns; those of wood, however strong at first, are soon decomposed,
and need repairs. They ought to be erected in the neighbourhood of the
calcining heaps, to save the labour of transport, and so arranged that
the solutions from the higher cisterns may spontaneously flow into the
lower. In this point of view, a sloping terrace is the best situation
for an alum work. In the lowest part of this terrace, and in the
neighbourhood of the boiling-house, there ought to be two or more large
deep tanks, for holding the crude lixivium, and they should be protected
from the rain by a proper shed. Upon a somewhat higher level the
cisterns of the clear lixivium may be placed. Into the highest range of
cisterns the calcined mineral is to be put, taking care to lay the
largest lumps at the bottom, and to cover them with lighter ashes. A
sufficient quantity of water is now to be run over it, and allowed to
rest for some time. The lixivium may then be drawn off, by a stopcock
connected with a pipe at the bottom of the cistern, and run into another
cistern at a somewhat lower level. Fresh water must now be poured on the
partly exhausted schist, and allowed to remain for a sufficient time.
This lixivium, being weak, should be run off into a separate tank. In
some cases a third addition of fresh water may be requisite, and the
weak lixivium which is drawn off may be reserved for a fresh portion of
calcined mineral. In order to save evaporation, it is always requisite
to strengthen weak leys by employing them instead of water for fresh
portions of calcined schist. Upon the ingenious disposition and form of
these lixiviating cisterns much of the economy and success of an alum
work depend. The hydrometer should be always used to determine the
degree of concentration which the solutions acquire.

The lixiviated stone being thus exhausted of its soluble ingredients, is
to be removed from the cisterns, and piled up in a heap in any
convenient place, where it may be left either spontaneously to
decompose, or, after drying, may be subjected to another calcination.

The density of the solution may be brought, upon an average, up to the
sp. gr. of from 1.09 to 1.15. The latter density may always be obtained
by pumping up the weaker solutions upon fresh calcined _mine_. This
strong liquor is then drawn off, when the sulphate of lime, the oxide of
iron, and the earths are deposited. It is of advantage to leave the
liquor exposed for some time, whereby the green vitriol may pass into a
persulphate of iron with the deposition of some oxide, while the
liberated acid may combine with some of the clay present, so as to
increase the quantity of sulphate of alumina. The manufacture of alum is
the more imperfect, as the quantity of sulphate of iron left
undecomposed is greater, and therefore every expedient ought to be tried
to convert the sulphate of iron into sulphate of alumina.

3. _The evaporation of the Schist Lixivium._--As the aluminous liquors,
however well settled at first, are apt, on the great scale, to deposit
earthy matters in the course of their concentration by heat, they are
best evaporated by a surface fire, such as that employed at Hurlett and
Campsie. A water-tight stone cistern must be built, having a layer of
well rammed clay behind the flags or tiles which line its bottom and
sides. This cistern may be 4 or 6 feet wide, 2 or 3 feet deep, and 30 or
40 feet long, and it is covered in by an arch of stone or brickwork. At
one extremity of this tunnel, or covered canal, a fire-grate is set, and
at the other a lofty chimney is erected. The cistern being filled to the
brim with the alum ley, a strong fire is kindled in the reverberatory
grate, and the flame and hot air are forced to sweep along the surface
of the liquor, so as to keep it in constant ebullition, and to carry off
the aqueous parts in vapour. The soot which is condensed in the process
falls to the bottom, and leaves the body of the liquor clear. As the
concentration goes on, more of the rough lixivium is run in from the
settling cistern, placed on a somewhat higher level, till the whole gets
charged with a clear liquor of a specific gravity sufficiently high for
transferring into the proper lead boilers.

At Whitby, the lead pans are 10 feet long, 4 feet 9 inches wide, 2 feet
2 inches deep at the one end, and 2 feet 8 inches deep at the other.
This increase of depth and corresponding slope, facilitates the
decantation of the concentrated lixivium by means of a syphon, applied
at the lower end. The bottom of the pan is supported by a series of
parallel iron bars, placed very near each other. In these lead pans the
liquor is concentrated, at a brisk boiling heat, by means of the flame
of a flue beneath them. Every morning the pans are emptied into a
settling cistern of stone or lead. The specific gravity of the liquor
should be about 1.4 or 1.5, being a saturated solution of the saline
matters present. The proper degree of density must vary, however, with
different kinds of lixivia, and according to the different views of the
manufacturer. For a liquor which consists of two parts of sulphate of
alumina, and one part of sulphate of iron, a specific gravity of 1.25
may be sufficient; but for a solution which contains two parts of
sulphate of iron to one of sulphate of alumina, so that the green
vitriol must be withdrawn first of all by crystallisation, a specific
gravity of 1.4 may be requisite.

The construction of an evaporating furnace well adapted to the
concentration of aluminous and other crude lixivia, is described under
SODA. The liquor basin may be made of tiles or flags puddled in clay,
and secured at the seams with a good _hydraulic_ cement. A mortar made
of quicklime mixed with the exhausted schist in powder, and iron
turnings, is said to answer well for this purpose. Sometimes over the
reverberatory furnace a flat pan is laid, instead of the arched top,
into which the crude liquor is put for neutralisation and partial
concentration. In Germany, such a pan is made of copper, because iron
would waste too fast, and lead would be apt to melt. From this
preparation basin the under evaporating trough is gradually supplied
with hot liquor. At one side of this lower trough, there is sometimes a
door, through which the sediment may be raked out as it accumulates upon
the bottom. Such a contrivance is convenient for this mode of
evaporation, and it permits, also, any repairs to be readily made; but,
indeed, an apparatus of this kind, well mounted at first, will serve for
many years.

In the course of the final concentration of the liquors, it is customary
to add some of the mother waters of a former process, the quantity of
which must be regulated by a proper analysis and knowledge of their
contents. If these mother waters contain much free sulphuric acid, from
the peroxidation of their sulphate of iron, they may prove useful in
dissolving a portion of the alumina of the sediment which is always
present in greater or less quantity.

4. _The precipitation of the Alum by adding Alkaline Salts._--As a
general rule, it is most advantageous to separate, first of all, from
the concentrated clear liquors, the alum in the state of powder or small
crystals, by addition of the proper alkaline matter, and to leave the
mingled foreign salts, such as the sulphate of iron or magnesia, in
solution, instead of trying to abstract these salts by a previous
crystallisation. In this way we not only simplify and accelerate the
manufacture of alum, and leave the mother waters to be worked up at any
convenient season, but we also avoid the risk of withdrawing any of the
sulphate of alumina with the sulphate of iron or magnesia. On this
account, the concentration of the liquor ought not to be pushed so far
as that, when it gets cold, it should throw out crystals, but merely to
the verge of this point. This density may be determined by suitable
experiments.

The clear liquor should now be run off into the precipitation cistern,
and have the proper quantity of sulphate or muriate of potash, or impure
sulphate or carbonate of ammonia added to it. The sulphate of potash,
which is the best precipitant, forms 18.34 parts out of 100 of
crystallised alum; and therefore that quantity of it, or its equivalent
in muriate of potash, or other potash or ammoniacal salts, must be
introduced into the aluminous liquor. Since sulphate of potash takes 10
parts of cold water to dissolve it, but is much more soluble in boiling
water, and since the precipitation of alum is more abundant the more
concentrated the mingled solutions are, it would be prudent to add the
sulphate solution as hot as may be convenient; but, as muriate of potash
is fully three times more soluble in cold water, it is to be preferred
as a precipitant, when it can be procured at a cheap rate. It has, also,
the advantage of decomposing the sulphate of iron present into a
muriate, a salt very difficult of crystallisation, and, therefore, less
apt to contaminate the crystals of alum. The quantity of alkaline salts
requisite to precipitate the alum, in a granular powder, from the
lixivium, depends on their richness in potash or ammonia, on the one
hand, and on the richness of the liquors in sulphate of alumina on the
other; and it must be ascertained, for each large quantity of product,
by a preliminary experiment in a precipitation glass. Here, an aliquot
measure of the aluminous liquor being taken, the liquid precipitant must
be added in successive portions, as long as it causes any cloud, when
the quantity added will be indicated by the graduation of the vessel. A
very exact approximation is not practicable upon the great scale; but,
as the mother waters are afterwards mixed together in one cistern, any
excess of the precipitant, at one time, is corrected by excess of
aluminous sulphate at another, and the resulting alum meal is collected
at the bottom. When the precipitated saline powder is thoroughly settled
and cooled, the supernatant mother water must be drawn off by a pump, or
rather a syphon or stopcock, into a lower cistern. The more completely
this drainage is effected, the more easily and completely will the alum
be purified.

This mother liquor has, generally, a specific gravity of 1.4 at a medium
temperature of the atmosphere, and consists of a saturated solution of
sulphate or muriate of black and red oxide of iron, with sulphate of
magnesia, in certain localities, and muriate of soda, when the soaper's
salt has been used as a precipitant, as also a saturated solution of
sulphate of alumina. By adding some of it, from time to time, to the
fresh lixivia, a portion of that sulphate is converted into alum; but,
eventually, the mother water must be evaporated, so as to obtain from it
a crop of ferruginous crystals; after which it becomes capable, once
more, of giving up its alum to the alkaline precipitants.

When the aluminous lixivia contain a great deal of sulphate of iron, it
may be good policy to withdraw a portion of it by crystallisation before
precipitating the alum. With this view, the liquors must be evaporated
to the density of 1.4, and then run off into crystallising stone
cisterns. After the green vitriol has concreted, the liquor should be
pumped back into the evaporating pan, and again brought to the density
of 1.4. On adding to it, now, the alkaline precipitants, the alum will
fall down from this concentrated solution, in a very minute crystalline
powder, very easy to wash and purify. But this method requires more
vessels and manipulation than the preceding, and should only be had
recourse to from necessity; since it compels us to carry on the
manufacture of both the valuable alum and the lower priced salts at the
same time; moreover, the copperas extracted at first from the schist
liquors carries with it, as we have said, a portion of the sulphate of
alumina, and acquires thereby a dull aspect; whereas the copperas
obtained after the separation of the alum is of a brilliant appearance.

5. _The washing, or edulcoration, of the Alum Powder._--This crystalline
pulverulent matter has a brownish colour, from the admixture of the
ferruginous liquors; but it may be freed from it by washing with very
cold water, which dissolves not more than one sixteenth of its weight of
alum. After stirring the powder and the water well together, the former
must be allowed to settle, and then the washing must be drawn off. A
second washing will render the alum nearly pure. The less water is
employed, and the more effectually it is drained off, the more complete
is the process. The second water may be used in the first washing of
another portion of alum powder, in the place of pure water. These
washings may be added to the schist lixivia.

6. _The crystallisation._--The washed alum is put into a lead pan, with
just enough water to dissolve it at a boiling heat; fire is applied, and
the solution is promoted by stirring. Whenever it is dissolved in a
saturated state, it is run off into the crystallising vessels, which are
called _roching_ casks. These casks are about five feet high, three feet
wide in the middle, somewhat narrower at the ends; they are made of very
strong staves, nicely fitted to each other, and held together by strong
iron hoops, which are driven on _pro tempore_, so that they may be
easily knocked off again, in order to take the staves asunder. The
concentrated solution, during its slow cooling in these close vessels,
forms large regular crystals, which hang down from the top, and project
from the sides, while a thick layer or cake lines the whole interior of
the cask. At the end of eight or ten days, more or less, according to
the weather, the hoops and staves are removed, when a cask of apparently
solid alum is disclosed to view. The workman now pierces this mass with
a pickaxe at the side near the bottom, and allows the mother water of
the interior to run off on the sloping stone floor into a proper
cistern, whence it is taken and added to another quantity of washed
powder to be crystallised with it. The alum is next broken into lumps,
exposed in a proper place to dry, and is then put into the finished bing
for the market. There is sometimes a little insoluble basic alum
(subsulphate) left at the bottom of the cask. This being mixed with the
former mother liquors, gets sulphuric acid from them; or, being mixed
with a little sulphuric acid, it is equally converted into alum.

When, instead of potash or its salts, the ammoniacal salts are used, or
putrid urine, with the aluminous lixivia, ammoniacal alum is produced,
which is perfectly similar to the potash alum in its appearance and
properties. At a gentle heat both lose their water of crystallisation,
amounting to 45-1/2 per cent. for the potash alum, and 48 for the
ammoniacal. The quantity of acid is the same in both, as, also, very
nearly the quantity of alumina, as the following analyses will show:

           Potash alum.                        Ammonia alum.

  Sulphate of potash            18.34 Sulphate of ammonia          12.88
  Sulphate of alumina           36.20 Sulphate of alumina          38.64
  Water                         45.46 Water                        48.48
                               ------                             ------
                               100.00                             100.00
                               ------                             ------

      Or otherwise, Potash alum.              Ammonia alum.

   1 atom sulphate of potash  1089.07  1 atom sulphate of ammonia  716.7
   1                  alumina 2149.80  1                  alumina 2149.8
  24 water                    2669.52 24 water                    2699.5
                              -------                             ------
                              5938.39                             5566.0
                              -------                             ------

           Or, Potash alum.                   Ammonia alum.

  Alumina                       10.82 Alumina                      11.90
  Potash                         9.94 Ammonia                       3.89
  Sulphuric Acid                33.77 Sulphuric acid               36.10
  Water                         45.47 Water                        48.11
                               ------                             ------
                               100.00                             100.00
                               ------                             ------

When heated pretty strongly, the ammoniacal alum loses its sulphuric
acid and ammonia, and only the earth remains. This is a very convenient
process for procuring pure alumina. Ammoniacal alum is easily
distinguished from the other by the smell of ammonia which it exhales
when triturated with quicklime. The Roman alum, made from alum stone,
possesses most of the properties of the schist-made alums, but it has a
few peculiar characters: it crystallises always in opaque cubes, whereas
the common alum crystallises in transparent octahedrons. It is probable
that Roman alum is a sulphate of alumina and potash, with a slight
excess of the earthy ingredient. It is permanent when dissolved in cold
water; for after a slow evaporation it is recovered in a cubical form.
But when it is dissolved in water heated to 110 deg. Fahr. and upwards, or
when its solution is heated above this pitch, subsulphate of alumina
falls, and on evaporation octahedral crystals of common alum are
obtained. The exact composition of the Roman alum has not been
determined, as far as I know. It probably differs from the other also in
its water of crystallisation. The Roman alum contains, according to MM.
Thenard and Roard, only 1/2200 of sulphate of iron, while the common
commercial alums contain 1/1000. It may be easily purified by solution,
granulation, crystallisation, and washing, as has been already
explained.

Alum is made extensively in France from an artificial sulphate of
alumina. For this purpose clays are chosen as free as possible from
carbonate of lime and oxide of iron. They are calcined in a
reverberatory furnace, in order to expel the water, to peroxidise the
iron, and to render the alumina more easily acted on by the acid. The
expulsion of the water renders the clay porous and capable of absorbing
the sulphuric acid by capillary attraction. The peroxidation of the iron
renders it less soluble in the sulphuric acid; and the silica of the
clay, by reacting on the alumina, impairs its aggregation, and makes it
more readily attracted by the acid. The clay should, therefore, be
moderately calcined; but not so as to indurate it like pottery ware, for
it would then suffer a species of siliceous combination which would make
it resist the action of acids. The clay is usually calcined in a
reverberatory furnace, the flame of which serves thereafter to heat two
evaporating pans and a basin for containing a mixture of the calcined
clay and sulphuric acid. As soon as the clay has become friable in the
furnace it is taken out, reduced to powder, and passed through a fine
sieve. With 100 parts of the pulverised clay, 45 parts of sulphuric
acid, of sp. gr. 1.45, are well mixed, in a stone basin, arched over
with brickwork. The flame and hot air of a reverberatory furnace are
made to play along the mixture, in the same way as described for
evaporating the schist liquors. See SODA. The mixture, being stirred
from time to time, is, at the end of a few days, to be raked out, and to
be set aside in a warm place, for the acid to work on the clay, during
six or eight weeks. At the end of this time it must be washed, to
extract the sulphate of alumina. With this view, it may be treated like
the roasted alum ores above described. If potash alum is to be formed,
this sulphate of alumina is evaporated to the specific gravity of 1.38;
but if ammonia alum, to the specific gravity of only 1.24; because the
sulphate of ammonia, being soluble in twice its weight of water, will
cause a precipitation of pulverulent alum from a weaker solution of
sulphate of alumina than the less soluble sulphate of potash could do.

The alum stone, from which the Roman alum is made, contains potash. The
following analysis of _alunite_, by M. Cordier, places this fact in a
clear light:--

  Sulphate of potash       18.53
  Sulphate of alumina      38.50
  Hydrate of alumina       42.97
                          ------
                          100.00
                          ------

To transform this compound into alum, it is merely necessary to abstract
the hydrate of alumina. The ordinary alum stone, however, is rarely so
pure as the above analysis would seem to show; for it contains a mixture
of other substances; and the above are in different proportions.

Alum is very extensively employed in the arts, most particularly in
dyeing, lake making, dressing sheep-skins, pasting paper, in clarifying
liquors, &c. Its purity for the dyer may be tested by prussiate of
potash, which will give solution of alum a blue tint in a few minutes if
it contain even a very minute portion of iron. A bit of nut-gall is also
a good test of iron.


AMADOU. The French name of the spongy combustible substance, called in
German _zunderschwamm_, prepared from a species of agaric, the _boletus
igniarius_, a kind of mushroom, which grows on the trunks of old oaks,
ashes, beeches, &c. It must be plucked in the months of August and
September. It is prepared by removing the outer bark with a knife, and
separating carefully the spongy substance of a yellow brown colour,
which lies within it, from the ligneous matter below. This substance is
cut into thin slices, and beat with a mallet to soften it, till it can
be easily pulled asunder between the fingers. In this state the
_boletus_ is a valuable substance for stopping oozing hemorrhages, and
some other surgical purposes. To convert it into tinder it must receive
a finishing preparation, which consists in boiling it in a strong
solution of nitre; drying it, beating it anew, and putting it a second
time into the solution. Sometimes, indeed, to render it very
inflammable, it is imbued with gunpowder, whence the distinction of
black and brown amadou.

All the puff balls of the lycopodium genus of plants, which have a
fleshy or filamentous structure, yield a tinder quite ready for soaking
in gunpowder water. The Hindoos employ a leguminous plant, which they
call _solu_, for the same purpose. Its thick spongy stem, being reduced
to charcoal, takes fire like amadou.


AMALGAM. When mercury is alloyed with any metal, the compound is called
an amalgam of that metal; as, for example, an amalgam of tin, bismuth,
&c.


AMALGAMATION. This is a process used extensively in extracting silver
and gold from certain of their ores, founded on the property which
mercury has to dissolve these metals as disseminated in the minerals,
and thus to separate them from the earthy matters. See MERCURY,
METALLURGY, and SILVER.


AMBER. (_Succin_, Fr.; _Bernstein_, Germ.) A mineral solid, of a yellow
colour of various shades, which burns quite away with flame, and
consists of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, in nearly the same
proportions, and the same state of combination, as vegetable resin. Its
specific gravity varies, by my trials, from 1.080 to 1.085. It becomes
negatively and powerfully electrical by friction. When applied to a
lighted candle it takes fire, swells considerably, and exhales a white
smoke of a pungent odour; but does not run into drops. Copal, which
resembles it in several respects, differs in being softer, and in
melting into drops at the flame; and mellite, or honey-stone, which is a
mineral of a similar colour, becomes white when laid on a red-hot coal.

The texture of amber is resino-vitreous, its fracture conchoidal, and
lustre glassy. It is perfectly homogeneous; sufficiently hard to scratch
gypsum, and to take a fine polish. It is, however, scratched by
calcareous spar. When amber is distilled in a retort, crystalline
needles of succinic acid sublime into the dome, and oil of amber drops
from the beak into the receiver. Fossil resins, such as that of
Highgate, found in the London clay formation, do not afford succinic
acid by heat; nor does copal. Amber is occasionally found of a whitish
and brownish colour.

The most interesting fact relative to this vegeto-mineral is its
geological position, which is very characteristic and well determined.
It is found almost uniformly in separate nodules, disseminated in the
sand, clay, or fragments of lignite of the plastic clay, and lignite
formation, situated between the _calcaire grossier_ (crag limestone) of
the tertiary strata above, and the white chalk below. The size of these
nodules varies from a nut to a man's head; but this magnitude is very
rare in true amber. It does not occur either in continuous beds, like
the chalk flints, nor in veins; but it lies at one time in the earthy or
friable strata, which accompany or include the lignites; at another,
entangled in the lignites themselves; and is associated with the
minerals which constitute this formation, principally the pyrites, the
most abundant of all. The pieces of amber found in the sands, and other
formations evidently alluvial, those met with on the sea-coasts of
certain countries, and especially Pomerania, come undoubtedly from the
above geological formation; for the organic matters found still adhering
to the amber leave no doubt as to its primitive place. Amber does not,
therefore, belong to any postdiluvian or modern soil, since its native
bed is covered by three or four series of strata, often of considerable
thickness, and well characterised; proceeding upwards from the plastic
clay which includes the amber: these are, the crag limestone, the bone
gypsum, with its marls, the marly limestone, the upper marl sandstone,
which covers it, and, lastly, the freshwater or lacustrine formation,
often so thick, and composed of calcareous and siliceous rocks.

The amber bed is not, however, always covered with all these strata; and
it is even rare to see a great mass of one of them above the ground
which contains it; because, were it buried under such strata, it would
be difficult to meet with such circumstances as would lay it
spontaneously open to the day. But by comparing observations made in
different places, relatively to the patches of these formations, which
cover the amber deposits, we find that no other mineral formations have
been ever seen among them except those above detailed, and thus learn
that its geological locality is completely determined.

The proper yellow amber, therefore, or the Borussic, from the country
where it has been most abundantly found, belongs to the plastic clay
formation, intermediate, in England, between the chalk and the London
clay. It is sometimes interposed in thin plates between the layers of
the lignites, but more towards the bark of the fibrous lignites, which
retain the form of the wood, than towards the middle of the trunk of the
tree; a position analogous to that of the resinous matters in our
existing ligneous vegetables. The fibrous lignites which thus contain
amber belong to the dicotyledinous woods. Hence that substance seems to
have been formed during the life of the vegetable upon which it is now
encrusted. It must be remembered that the grounds containing the amber
are often replete with the sulphates of iron, alumina, and lime, or at
least with the pyritous elements of these salts. Some specimens of amber
have a surface figured with irregular meshes, indicating a sort of
shrinkage from consolidation, and consequently a matter that was at one
time fluid, viscid, or merely soft. From optical examination, Dr.
Brewster has concluded amber to be of vegetable origin.

The different bodies included in the amber, distinguishable from its
transparence, demonstrate, indeed, in the most convincing manner, its
primitive state of liquidity or softness. These bodies have long
exercised the skill of naturalists. They are generally insects, or
remains of insects, and sometimes leaves, stalks, or other portions of
vegetables. Certain families of insects occur more abundantly than
others. Thus the _hymenoptera_, or insects with four naked membranaceous
wings, as the bee and wasp, and the _diptera_, or insects with two
wings, as gnats, flies, gadflies, &c.; then come the spider tribe; some
_coleoptera_ (insects with crustaceous shells or elytra, which shut
together, and form a longitudinal suture down the back,) or beetles,
principally those which live on trees; such as the _elaterides_, or
leapers, and the _chrysomelida_. The lepidoptera, or insects with four
membranaceous wings, and pterigostea covered with mail-like scales, are
very rare in amber. We perceive from this enumeration, which results
from the labours of Germar, Schweiger, &c., that the insects enveloped
in this resinous matter are in general such as sit on the trunks of
trees, or live in the fissures of their bark. Hitherto, it has not been
found possible to refer them to any living species; but it has been
observed in general that they resemble more the insects of hot climates
than those of the temperate zones.

The districts where amber occurs in a condition fit for mining
operations are not numerous; but those in which it is met with in small
scattered bits are very abundant. Its principal exploitation is in
Eastern Prussia, on the coasts of the Baltic sea, from Memel to
Dantzick, particularly in the neighbourhood of Konigsberg, along the
shore which runs north and south from Grossdirschheim to Pillau, and in
several other places near Dantzick.

It is collected upon this coast in several ways; 1. In the beds of small
streams which run near the villages, and in rounded fragments without
bark, or in the sand-banks of rivers, in pieces thrown back by the sea,
and rounded by the waves. 2. If the pieces thrown up by the waters are
not numerous, the fishers, clothed in a leather dress, wade into the sea
up to the neck, seek to discover the amber by looking along its surface,
and seize it with bag nets, hung at the end of very long poles. They
conclude that a great deal of amber has been detached from the cliffs by
the sea, when many pieces of lignite (wood coal) are seen afloat. This
mode of collecting amber is not free from danger, and the fishers,
therefore, advance in troops, to lend each other aid in case of
accident; but their success, even thus, is most precarious. 3. The third
method of searching for amber is a real mining operation: it consists in
digging pits upon the borders of the sandy downs, sometimes to a depth
of more than 130 feet. 4. The last mode is by exploring the precipitous
sea cliffs in boats, and detaching masses of loose soil from them with
long poles terminating in iron hooks; a very hazardous employment. They
search the cliffs with great care at the level, where the amber nodules
commonly lie, and loosen the seams with their hooks; in which business
the boats are sometimes broken against the precipices, or sunk by an
avalanche of rubbish.

Amber occurs in Sicily, disseminated in beds of clay and marl, which lie
below the crag limestone. It is accompanied with bitumen; and, though a
scanty deposit, it is mined for sale. The pieces are coated with a kind
of whitish bark, present a variety of colours, and include many insects.
Amber is found in a great many places in the sandy districts of Poland,
at a very great distance from the sea, where it is mixed with cones of
the pine. In Saxony it is met with in the neighbourhood of Pretsch and
Wittemberg, in a bituminous clay mingled with lignite. At the embouchure
of the Jenissey, in Siberia, it occurs likewise along with lignite; as
also in Greenland.

Fine amber is considerably valued for making ornamental objects, and the
coarser kinds for certain uses in chemistry, medicine, and the arts. The
oriental nations prize more highly than the people of Europe trinkets
made of amber; and hence the chief commerce of the Pomeranian article is
with Turkey. The Prussian government is said to draw an annual revenue
of 17,000 dollars from amber. A good piece of a pound weight fetches 50
dollars. A mass weighing 13 pounds was picked up not long since in
Prussia, for which 5000 dollars were offered, and which would bring, in
the opinion of the Armenian merchants, from 30,000 to 40,000 dollars at
Constantinople. At one time it was customary to bake the opaque pieces
of amber in sand, at a gentle heat, for several hours, in order to make
it transparent, or to digest it in hot rapeseed oil, with the same view;
but how far these processes were advantageous does not appear.

When amber is to be worked into trinkets, it is first split on a leaden
plate at a lathe (see GEMS, _Cutting of_), and then smoothed into shape
on a Swedish whetstone. It is polished on the lathe with chalk and
water, or vegetable oil, and finished by friction with flannel. In these
processes the amber is apt to become highly electrical, very hot, and
even to fly into fragments. Hence, the artists work the pieces time
about, so as to keep each of them cool, and feebly excited. The men are
often seized with nervous tremors in their wrists and arms from the
electricity. Pieces of amber may be neatly joined by smearing their
edges with linseed oil, and pressing them strongly together, while they
are held over a charcoal fire. Solid specimens of amber, reported to
have been altogether fused by a particular application of heat, are now
shown in the royal cabinet of Dresden.

A strong and durable _varnish_ is made by dissolving amber in drying
linseed oil. For this purpose, however, the amber must be previously
heated in an iron pot, over a clear red fire, till it soften and be
semi-liquefied. The oil, previously heated, is to be now poured in, with
much stirring, in the proportion of 10 ounces to the pound of amber;
and after the incorporation is complete, and the liquid somewhat cooled,
a pound of oil of turpentine must be added. Some persons prescribe 2
ounces of melted shellac, though by this means they are apt to deepen
the colour, already rendered too dark by the roasting.

The fine black varnish of the coachmakers is said to be prepared by
melting 16 ounces of amber in an iron pot, adding to it half a pint of
drying linseed oil, boiling hot, of powdered resin and asphaltum 3
ounces each: when the materials are well united, by stirring over the
fire, they are to be removed, and, after cooling for some time, a pint
of warm oil of turpentine is to be introduced.

The _oil of amber_ enters into the composition of the old perfume called
_eau de luce_; and is convertible, by the action of a small quantity of
strong nitric acid, into a viscid mass like shoemakers' rosin, which has
a strong odour of musk, and, under the name of artificial musk, has been
prescribed, in alcoholic solution, as a remedy against hooping cough,
and other spasmodic diseases.

Acid of amber (_succinic acid_) is a delicate reagent, in chemistry, for
separating red oxide of iron from compound metallic solutions.


AMBERGRIS. (_Ambregric_, Fr.; _Ambra_, Germ.).--A morbid secretion of
the liver of the spermaceti whale (physeter macrocephalus), found
usually swimming upon the sea. It occurs upon the coasts of Coromandel,
Japan, the Moluccas, and Madagascar, and has sometimes been extracted
from the rectum of whales in the South Sea fishery. It has a gray-white
colour, often with a black streak, or is marbled, yellow and black; has
a strong but rather agreeable smell, a fatty taste, is lighter than
water, melts at 60 deg. C. (140 deg. F.), dissolves readily in absolute alcohol,
in ether, and in both fat and volatile oils. It contains 85% of the
fragrant substance called _ambreine_. This is extracted from ambergris
by digestion with alcohol of 0.827, filtering the solution, and leaving
it to spontaneous evaporation. It is thus obtained in the form of
delicate white tufts: which are convertible into ambreic acid by the
action of nitric acid. Ambergris is used in perfumery.


AMIANTHUS. A mineral in silky filaments, called also ASBESTUS.


AMMONIA. A chemical compound, called also _volatile alkali_. This
substance, in its purest state, is a highly pungent gas, possessed of
all the mechanical properties of the air, but very condensable with
water. It consists of 3 volumes of hydrogen and 1 of azote condensed
into two volumes; and hence its density is 0.591, atmospheric air being
1.000. By strong compression and refrigeration it may be liquefied into
a fluid, whose specific gravity is 0.76 compared to water 1.000.

Ammonia gas is composed by weight of 82.53 azote and 17.47 hydrogen in
100 parts. It is obtained by mixing muriate of ammonia, commonly called
sal ammoniac, with quicklime, in a retort or still, applying a moderate
heat, and receiving the gas either over mercury for chemical
experiments, or in water to make liquid ammonia for the purposes of
medicine and the arts. Woulfe's apparatus is commonly employed for this
condensation.

Ammonia is generated in a great many operations, and especially in the
decomposition of many organic substances, by fire or fermentation. Urine
left to itself for a few days is found to contain much carbonate of
ammonia, and hence this substance was at one time collected in great
quantities for the manufacture of certain salts of ammonia, and is still
used for its alkaline properties in making alum, scouring wool, &c. When
woollen rags, horns, bones, and other animal substances are decomposed
in close vessels by fire, they evolve a large quantity of ammonia, which
distils over in the form of a carbonate. The main source of ammonia now
in this country, for commercial purposes, is the coal gas works. A large
quantity of watery fluid is condensed in their tar pits, which contains,
chiefly ammonia combined with sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic acid.
When this water is saturated with muriatic acid and evaporated it yields
muriate of ammonia, or sal ammoniac, somewhat impure, which is
afterwards purified by sublimation. See CARBONATE OF AMMONIA and SAL
AMMONIAC.

The soot of chimnies where coal is burned contains both sulphate and
carbonate of ammonia, and was extensively employed, at one time, to
manufacture these salts.

In making water of ammonia on the great scale, a cast iron still should
be preferred, and equal weights of quicklime and sal ammoniac should be
brought to the consistence of a pap, with water, before the heat is
applied. In this case, a refrigeratory worm or globe should be
interposed between the adopter tube of the capital of the still and the
bottles of Woulfe's apparatus. The muriate of lime, or chloride of
calcium, which is left in the still when the whole ammonia is expelled,
is of no value. Water is capable of condensing easily about one third of
its weight of ammonia gas, or 460 times its bulk. The following table of
the quantity of ammonia in 100 parts by weight of its aqueous
combinations, at successive densities, is the result of very careful
experiments made by me, and recorded in the Philosophical Magazine for
March, 1821.

_Table of Water of Ammonia or Volatile Alkali, by Dr. Ure._

  +------+-------+------+-----------+--------+-------------------------+
  |Water |Ammonia|Water | Specific  |  Mean  |                         |
  | of   |  in   |  in  |gravity by |specific|   Equivalent primes.    |
  |0.900.| 100.  | 100. |experiment.|gravity.|                         |
  +------+-------+------+-----------+--------+-------------------------+
  | 100  |26.500 |73.500|   0.9000  |        |                         |
  |  95  |25.175 |74.825|   0.9045  |0.90452 |               _Wat. Am._|
  |  90  |23.850 |76.150|   0.9090  |0.90909 |    24 + 76,      6 to 1 |
  |  85  |22.525 |77.475|   0.9133  |0.91370 |                         |
  |  80  |21.200 |78.800|   0.9177  |0.91838 | 21.25 + 78.75,   7 to 1 |
  |  75  |19.875 |80.125|   0.9227  |0.92308 |                         |
  |  70  |18.550 |81.450|   0.9275  |0.92780 |  19.1 + 80.9,    8 to 1 |
  |  65  |17.225 |82.775|   0.9320  |0.93264 | 17.35 + 82.65,   9 to 1 |
  |  60  |15.900 |84.100|   0.9363  |0.93750 |  15.9 + 84.1,   10 to 1 |
  |  55  |14.575 |85.425|   0.9410  |0.94241 | 14.66 + 85.34,  11 to 1 |
  |  50  |13.250 |86.750|   0.9455  |0.94737 | 13.60 + 86.40,  12 to 1 |
  |  45  |11.925 |88.075|   0.9510  |0.95238 |  11.9 + 88.1,   14 to 1 |
  |  40  |10.600 |89.400|   0.9564  |0.95744 |  11.2 + 88.8,   15 to 1 |
  |  35  | 9.275 |90.725|   0.9614  |0.96256 |                         |
  |  30  | 7.950 |92.050|   0.9662  |0.96774 |  8.63 + 91.37,  20 to 1 |
  |  25  | 6.625 |93.375|   0.9716  |0.97297 |     7 + 93,     25 to 1 |
  |  20  | 5.300 |94.700|   0.9768  |0.97826 |     6 + 94,     30 to 1 |
  |  15  | 3.975 |96.025|   0.9828  |0.98360 |   4.5 + 95.5,   40 to 1 |
  |  10  | 2.650 |97.350|   0.9887  |0.98900 |     3 + 97,     60 to 1 |
  |   5  | 1.325 |98.675|   0.9945  |0.99447 |                         |
  +------+-------+------+-----------+--------+-------------------------+


AMMONIAC, gum-resin. This is the inspissated juice of an umbelliferous
plant (the _dorema armeniacum_) which grows in Persia. It comes to us
either in small white tears clustered together, or in brownish lumps,
containing many impurities. It possesses a peculiar smell, somewhat like
that of assaf[oe]tida, and a bitterish taste. It is employed in
medicine. Its only use in the arts is for forming a cement to join
broken pieces of china and glass, which may be prepared as follows: Take
isinglass 1 ounce, distilled water 6 ounces, boil together down to 3
ounces, and add 1-1/2 ounce of strong spirit of wine;--boil this mixture
for a minute or two; strain it; add, while hot, first, half an ounce of
a milky emulsion of gum ammoniac, and then five drams of an alcoholic
solution of resin mastic. This resembles a substance sold in the London
shops, under the name of _diamond cement_. The recipe was given me by a
respectable dispensing chemist.


AMORPHOUS. _Without shape._ Said of mineral and other substances which
occur in forms not easy to be defined.


ANALYSIS. The art of resolving a compound substance or machine into its
constituent parts. Every manufacturer should so study this art, in the
proper treatises, and schools of Chemistry or Mechanics, as to enable
him properly to understand and regulate his business.

[Illustration: 6]


ANCHOR. (_Ancre_, Fr.; _Anker_, Germ.) An iron hook of considerable
weight and strength, for enabling a ship to lay hold of the ground, and
fix itself in a certain situation by means of a rope called the cable.
It is an instrument of the greatest importance to the navigator, since
upon its taking and keeping hold depends his safety upon many
occasions, especially near a lee shore, where he might be otherwise
stranded or shipwrecked. Anchors are generally made of wrought iron,
except among nations who cannot work this metal well, and who therefore
use copper. The mode in which an anchor operates will be understood from
inspection of _fig._ 6., where, from the direction of the strain, it is
obvious that the anchor cannot move without ploughing up the ground in
which its hook or fluke is sunk. When this, however, unluckily takes
place, from the nature of the ground, from the mode of insertion of the
anchor, or from the violence of the winds or currents, it is called
_dragging the anchor_. When the hold is good, the cable or the buried
arm will sooner break than the ship will drive. Anchors are of different
sizes, and have different names, according to the purposes they serve;
thus there are, _sheet_, _best bower_, _small bower_, _spare_, _stream_,
and _kedge anchors_. Ships of the first class have seven anchors, and
smaller vessels, such as brigs and schooners, three.

[Illustration: 7]

The manufacture of anchors requires great knowledge of the structure of
iron, and skill in the art of working it. I shall give, here, a brief
notice of the improved system introduced by Mr. Perring, clerk of the
cheque at Plymouth, in which the proportions of the parts are admirably
adapted to the strains they are likely to suffer. In _fig._ 7. A is the
_shank_; B, the _arm_ or _fluke_; C, the _palm_; D, the _blade_; E, the
_square_; F, the _nut_; G, the _ring_; H, the _crown_.

Formerly the shank was made of a number of square iron rods, laid
parallel together in a cylindrical form, and bound by iron hoops. When
they were welded into one bar, the exterior rods could not fail to be
partially burned and wasted by the strong heat. Mr. Perring abated this
evil by using bars of the whole breadth of the shank, and placing them
right over each other, hooping them and welding them together at two
heats into one solid mass. To any one who has seen the working of
puddled iron, with a heavy mill hammer, this operation will not appear
difficult.

He formed the crown with bars similarly distributed with those of the
shank. His mode of uniting the flukes to the crown is probably the most
valuable part of his invention. The bars and half the breadth of the
anchor are first welded separately, and then placed side by side, where
the upper half is worked into one mass, while the lower part is left
disunited, but has carrier iron bars, or _porters_, as these
prolongation rods are commonly called, welded to the extremity of each
portion. The lower part is now heated and placed in the clamping
machine, which is merely an iron plate firmly bolted to a mass of
timber, and bearing upon its surface four iron pins. One end of the
crown is placed between the first of these pins, and passed under an
iron strap; the other end is brought between the other pins, and is bent
by the leverage power of the elongated rods or porters.

Thus a part of the arm being formed out of the crown gives much greater
security that a true union of fibres is effected, than when the junction
was made merely by a short scarf.

The angular opening upon the side opposite B H, _fig._ 7., is filled
with the _chock_, formed of short iron bars placed upright. When this
has been firmly welded, the truss-piece is brought over it. This piece
is made of plates similar to the above, except that their edges are here
horizontal. The truss-piece is half the breadth of the arm; so that when
united to the crown, it constitutes, with the other parts, the total
breadth of the arms at those places.

The shank is now shut upon the crown; the square is formed, and the nuts
welded to it; the hole is punched out for the ring, and the shank is
then fashioned.

The blade is made much in the way above described. In making the palm,
an iron rod is first bent into the approximate form, notching it so that
it may more readily take the desired shape. To one end a _porter_ rod is
fastened, by which the palm is carried and turned round in the fire
during the progress of the fabrication. Iron plates are next laid side
by side upon the rod, and the joint at the middle is broken by another
plate laid over it. When the mass is worked, its under side is filled up
by similar plates, and the whole is completely welded; pieces being
added to the sides, if necessary, to form the angles of the palm. The
blade is then shut on to the palm, after which the part of the arm
attached to the blade is united to that which constitutes the crown. The
smith-work of the anchor is now finished.

The junction, or shutting on, as the workmen call it, of the several
members of an anchor, is effected by an instrument called a _monkey_,
which is merely a mass of iron raised to a certain height, between
parallel uprights, as in the pile engine or vertical ram, and let fall
upon the metal previously brought to a welding heat.

The _monkey_ and the _hercules_, both silly, trivial names, are similar
instruments, and are usually worked, like a portable pile engine, by the
hands of several labourers, pulling separate ropes. Many other modes of
manufacturing anchors have been devised, in which mechanical power is
more extensively resorted to.

The upper end of the shank F (_fig._ 7.) is squared to receive and hold
the stock steadily, and keep it from turning. To prevent it shifting
along, there are two knobs or tenon-like projections. The point of the
angle H, between the arms and the shank, is sometimes called the throat.
The arm B C generally makes an angle of 56 deg. with the shank A; it is
either round or polygonal, and about half the length of the shank.

The _stock_ of the anchor (_fig._ 6.) is made of oak. It consists of two
beams which embrace the _square_, and are firmly united by iron bolts
and hoops, as shown in the figure. The stock is usually somewhat longer
than the shank, has in the middle a thickness about one-twelfth of its
length, but tapers at its under side to nearly one half this thickness
at the extremities. In small anchors the stock is frequently made of
iron; but in this case it does not embrace the anchor, but goes through
a hole made in the square, which is swelled out on purpose.

The weight of anchors for different vessels is proportioned to the
tonnage; a good rule being to make the anchor in hundredweights
one-twentieth of the number of tons of the burden. Thus a ship of 1000
tons would require a sheet anchor of 50 cwts. Ships of war are provided
with somewhat heavier anchors.

Several new forms and constructions of anchors were proposed under Mr.
Piper's patent of November, 1822, by the adoption of which great
advantages as to strength were anticipated over every other form or
construction previously made.

The particular object was to preserve such a disposition of the fibres
of the metal as should afford the greatest possible strength; in doing
which the crossing or bending of the fibres at the junctions of the
shank, flukes, and crown, where great strength is required, has been
avoided as much as possible, so that the fibres are not disturbed or
injured.

In this respect most anchors are defective; for in connecting the shanks
to the crown-pieces, the grain of the metal is either crossed, or so
much curved, as to strain the fibre, and consequently induce a weakness
where the greatest strength is required. And, further, the very
considerable thicknesses of metal which are to be brought into immediate
contact by means of the hammer in forging anchors upon the old
construction, render it highly probable that faulty places may be left
within the mass, though they be externally imperceptible. Mr. Piper's
leading principle was, that the fibre of the metal should run nearly
straight in all the parts where strength is particularly required.

[Illustration: 8]

_Fig._ 8. shows an anchor with one tumbling fluke, which passes through
the forked or branched part of the shank. The lower part of this anchor,
answering to the crown, has a spindle through it, upon which the fluke
turns, and a pin is there introduced for the purpose of confining the
fluke when in a holding position. This shank is formed of a solid piece
of wrought iron, the fibres of which run straight, and at the crown
holes are pierced, which merely bulge the metal without bending the
fibres round so as to strain them. The arm and fluke, also, are formed
of one piece punched through without curling or crossing the fibre, and
the spindle which holds the arm to the crown is likewise straight. This
spindle extends some distance on each side of the anchor, and is
intended to answer the purpose of a stock; for when either of the ends
of the spindle comes in contact with the ground, the anchor will be
thrown over into a holding position; or an iron stock may be introduced
near the shackle, instead of these projecting ends. In the descent of
the anchor, the fluke will fall over towards that side which is nearest
the ground, and will there be ready to take hold when the anchor is
drawn forward.

[Illustration: 9]

_Fig._ 9. is another anchor upon the same principle, but slightly varied
in form from the last. In this the forked part of the shank is closer
than in the former, and there are two arms or flukes connected to the
crown-pieces, one of which falls into its holding position as the anchor
comes to the ground, and is held at its proper angle by the other fluke
stopping against the shank.

[Illustration: 10]

_Fig._ 10. represents another variation in the form of these improved
anchors, having two tumbling flukes, which are both intended to take
hold of the ground at the same time. The shank is here, as before, made
without crossing the grain of the iron, and the eyes for admitting the
bolt at the crown and at the shackle are punched out of the solid, not
formed by welding or turning the iron round. In this form a guard is
introduced at the crown, to answer the purpose of a stock, by turning
the flukes over into a holding position. The arms and flukes are made,
as before described, of the straight fibre of the iron punched through,
and the flukes are fixed to the spindle, which passes through the
crown-piece.

[Illustration: 11]

_Fig._ 11. has a shank without any fork, but formed straight throughout;
the guard here is an elongated frame of iron, for the same purpose as a
stock, and is, with the tumbling flukes, fastened to the spindle, which
passes through the crown of the anchor, and causes the flukes to fall
into their holding position.

The principles of these new anchors are considered to consist in shanks
which are made of straight lengths of metal, and finished so that the
fibres of the iron shall not be injured by cross-shuts or uncertain
welding; also each arm and palm is made in one solid piece, and finished
in straight lines, so that the fibres will not be altered, and the
shaft-pin or spindle will also be in one straight line; and this is the
improvement claimed. These anchors being made in separate pieces, give a
great advantage to the workman to execute each part perfectly; for he
will not have such heavy weights to lift when hot, which will render
these anchors much stronger, with less weight; and if any accident
should happen to them, any part may be taken separate from the others to
be repaired, and several of those parts of the anchor which may be
likely to break may be carried on board, in case of accident. This
anchor is so contrived that one of thirty hundred weight may be taken to
pieces and put together again, by one man, in twenty minutes; it may
also be dismounted, and stowed in any part of the ship, in as little
room as straight bars of iron, and speedily put together again.

[Illustration: 12]

The anchor (_fig._ 12.) patented by Mr. Brunton, in February, 1822, has
its stock introduced at the crown part, for the purpose of turning it
over into a holding position. The shank is perforated through the solid,
in two places, with elliptical apertures, for the purpose of giving it a
greater stability, and more effectually resisting the strain to which
the anchor may be subjected. The stock is a cylindrical iron rod, held
at its extremities by lateral braces, which are bolted to the shank.

_Fig._ 12. shows the form of the anchor. The shank is seen upright, with
one of the flukes projecting in its front; the horizontal iron stock is
at bottom; and the oblique braces are bolted to both shank and stock.
The ends of the stock, from the shoulder, are formed dove-tailed, and
oval in the vertical direction, and are protruded through apertures in
the braces, also oval, but in the horizontal direction, and counter
sunk. When the ends of the stock have been thus introduced through the
holes, the braces are securely bolted to the shank; the ends of the
stock are then spread, by hammering into the counter-sunk holes of the
braces, and by that means they are made firm.

An anchor of this description is considered by the patentee to possess
considerable advantage, particularly in point of stability, over the
ordinary construction of anchors, and is economical, inasmuch as a less
weight of metal will give, upon this plan, an equal degree of strength.

An ingenious form of anchor was made the subject of a patent, by
Lieutenant Rodgers, of the Royal Navy, in 1828, and was afterwards
modified by him in a second patent, obtained in August, 1829. The whole
of the parts of the anchor are to be bound together by means of iron
bands or hoops, in place of bolts or pins.

[Illustration: 13 14 15 16]

_Fig._ 13. is a side view of a complete anchor, formed upon his last
improved construction, and _fig._ 14., a plan of the same; _fig._ 15.,
an end view of the crown and flukes, or arms; _fig._ 16. represents the
two principal iron plates, _a_, _a_, of which the shank is constructed,
but so as to form parts of the stump arms to which the flukes are to be
connected.

The crown piece is to be welded to the stump piece, _c c_, _fig._ 16.,
as well as to the end _l_ of the centre piece _h h_, and the scarfs _m
m_ are to be cut to receive the arms or flukes. Previously, however, to
uniting the arms or flukes with the stump arms, the crown and throat of
the anchor are to be strengthened, by the application of the crown slabs
_n n_, _fig._ 16., which are to be welded upon each side of the crown,
overlapping the end of the pillar _h_, and the throat or knees of the
stump arms and the crown piece. The stump arms are then to be
strengthened in a similar manner, by the thin flat pieces _p p_, which
are to be welded upon each side. The palms are united to the flukes in
the usual way, and the flukes are also united to the stump arms by means
of the long scarfs _m m_. When the shank of the anchor has been thus
formed, and united with the flukes, the anchor smith's work may be said
to be complete.

[Illustration: 17]

Another of the improvements in the construction of anchors, claimed
under this patent, consists in a new method of affixing the stock upon
the shank of the anchor, which is effected in the following manner: in
_fig._ 14. the stock is shown affixed to the anchor; in _fig._ 17. it is
shown detached. It may be made either of one or two pieces of timber, as
may be found most convenient. It is, however, to be observed that the
stock is to be completed before fitting on to the shank. After the stock
is shaped, a hole is to be made through the middle of it, to fit that
part of the shank to which it is to be affixed. Two stock plates are
then to be let in, one on each side of the stock, and made fast by
counter sunk nails and straps, or hoops; other straps or hoops of iron
are also to be placed round the stock, as usual.

In place of nuts, formed upon the shank of the anchor, it is proposed to
secure the stock by means of a hoop and a key, shown above and below J,
in _fig._ 14. By this contrivance, the stock is prevented from going
nearer to the crown of the anchor than it ought to do, and the key
prevents it from sliding towards the shackle.

Since fitting the stock to the shank of an anchor, by this method,
prevents the use of a ring, as in the ordinary manner, the patentee says
that he in all cases substitutes a shackle for the ring, and which is
all that is required for a chain cable; but, when a hempen cable is to
be used, he connects a ring to the usual shackle, by means of a joining
shackle, as in _figs._ 13. and 14.

Mr. Rodgers proposes, under another patent, dated July, 1833, to alter
the size and form of the palms; having found from experience that
anchors with small palms will not only hold better than with large ones,
but that the arms of the anchor, even without any palms, have been found
to take more secure hold of the ground than anchors of the old
construction, of similar weight and length. He has, accordingly, fixed
upon one-fifth of the length of the arm, as a suitable proportion for
the length or depth of the palm. He makes the palms, also, broader than
they are long or deep.


ANIME. A resin of a pale brown yellow colour, transparent and brittle.
It exudes from the courbaril of Cayenne, a tree which grows also in
various parts of South America. It occurs in pieces of various sizes,
and it often contains so many insects belonging to living species, as to
have merited its name, as being animated. It contains about a fifth of
one per cent. of a volatile oil, which gives it an agreeable odour.
Alcohol does not dissolve the genuine anime, as I have ascertained by
careful experiments; nor does caoutchoucine; but a mixture of the two,
in equal parts, softens it into a tremulous jelly, though it will not
produce a liquid solution. When reduced to this state, the insects can
be easily picked out, without injury to their most delicate parts.

The specific gravity of the different specimens of anime which I tried,
varied from 1.054 to 1.057. When exposed to heat, in a glass retort over
a spirit flame, it softens, and, by careful management, it may be
brought into liquid fusion, without discolouration. It then exhales a
few white vapours, of an ambrosiacal odour, which being condensed in
water, and the liquid being tested, is found to be succinic acid.
_Author._

It is extensively used by the varnish makers, who fuse it at a pretty
high heat, and in this state combine it with their oils, or other
varnishes.


ANKER. A liquid measure of Amsterdam, which contains 32 gallons English.


ANNEALING or NEALING. (_Le recuit_, Fr.; _das anlassen_, Germ.) A
process by which glass is rendered less frangible; and metals, which
have become brittle, either in consequence of fusion, or long-continued
hammering, are again rendered malleable. When a glass vessel is allowed
to cool immediately after being made, it will often sustain the shock of
a pistol-bullet, or any other blunt body falling into it from a
considerable height; while a small splinter of flint, or an angular
fragment of quartz, dropped gently into it, makes it sometimes
immediately, sometimes after a few minutes, fly to pieces with great
violence. This extreme fragility is prevented by annealing, or placing
the vessels in an oven, where they take several hours or even some days
to cool. Similar phenomena are exhibited in a higher degree by
glass-tears, or Prince Rupert's drops. They are procured by letting
drops of melted glass fall into cold water. Their form resembles that of
a pear, rounded at one extremity, and tapering to a very slender tail at
the other. If a part of the tail be broken off, the whole drop flies to
pieces with a loud explosion; and yet the tail of a drop may be cut away
by a glass-cutter's wheel, or the thick end may be struck smartly with
a hammer, without the fear of sustaining any injury. When heated to
redness, and permitted to cool gradually in the open air, they lose
these peculiarities, and do not differ sensibly from common glass.

The properties of unannealed glass depend on a peculiar structure,
extending uniformly through its whole substance; and the bursting of a
glass drop by breaking off the tail, or of an unannealed glass vessel,
by dropping a piece of flint into it, arises from a crack being thus
begun, which afterwards extends its ramifications in different
directions throughout the glass.

When metals have been extended to a certain degree under the hammer,
they become brittle, and incapable of being further extended without
cracking. In this case the workman restores their malleability by
annealing, or heating them red-hot. The rationale of this process seems
to be, that the hammering and extension of the metal destroy the kind of
arrangement which the particles of the metal had previous to the
hammering; and that the annealing, by softening the metal, enables it to
recover its original structure.

Of late years a mode has been discovered of rendering cast iron
malleable, without subjecting it to the action of puddling. The process
is somewhat similar to that employed in annealing glass. The metal is
kept for several hours at a temperature a little below its fusing point,
and then allowed to cool slowly. In this manner vessels are made of cast
iron which can sustain considerable violence, without being broken. See
STEEL, softening of.


ANNOTTO. (_Rocou_, or _roucou_, Fr.; _orleans_, Germ.) A somewhat dry
and hard paste, brown without, and red within. It is usually imported in
cakes of two or three pounds weight, wrapped up in leaves of large
reeds, packed in casks, from America, where it is prepared from the
seeds of a certain tree, the _bixa orellana_, of Linnaeus.

The pods of the tree being gathered, their seeds are taken out and
bruised; they are then transferred to a vat, which is called the
steeper, where they are mixed with as much water as covers them. Here
the substance is left for several weeks, or even months; it is now
squeezed through sieves placed above the steeper, that the water
containing the colouring matter in suspension may return, into the vat.
The residuum is preserved under the leaves of the anana (pine-apple)
tree, till it becomes hot by fermentation. It is again subjected to the
same operation, and this treatment is continued till no more colour
remains.

The substance thus extracted is passed through sieves, in order to
separate the remainder of the seeds, and the colour is allowed to
subside. The precipitate is boiled in coppers till it be reduced to a
consistent paste; it is then suffered to cool, and dried in the shade.

Instead of this long and painful labour, which occasions diseases by the
putrefaction induced, and which affords a spoiled product, Leblond
proposes simply to wash the seeds of annotto till they be entirely
deprived of their colour, which lies wholly on their surface; to
precipitate the colour by means of vinegar or lemon juice, and to boil
it up in the ordinary manner, or to drain it in bags, as is practised
with indigo.

The experiments which Vauquelin made on the seeds of annotto imported by
Leblond, confirmed the efficacy of the process which he proposed; and
the dyers ascertained that the annotto obtained in this manner was worth
at least four times more than that of commerce; that, moreover, it was
more easily employed; that it required less solvent; that it gave less
trouble in the copper, and furnished a purer colour.

Annotto dissolves better and more readily in alcohol than in water, when
it is introduced into the yellow varnishes for communicating an orange
tint.

The decoction of annotto in water has a strong peculiar odour, and a
disagreeable taste. Its colour is yellowish-red, and it remains a little
turbid. An alkaline solution renders its orange-yellow clearer and more
agreeable, while a small quantity of a whitish substance is separated
from it, which remains suspended in the liquid. If annotto be boiled in
water along with an alkali, it dissolves much better than when alone,
and the liquid has an orange hue.

The acids form with this liquor an orange-coloured precipitate, soluble
in alkalies, which communicate to it a deep orange colour. The
supernatant liquor retains only a pale yellow hue.

When annotto is used as a dye, it is always mixed with alkali, which
facilitates its solution, and gives it a colour inclining less to red.
The annotto is cut in pieces, and boiled for some instants in a copper
with its own weight of crude pearl ashes, provided the shade wanted do
not require less alkali. The cloths may be thereafter dyed in this bath,
either by these ingredients alone, or by adding others to modify the
colour; but annotto is seldom used for woollen, because the colours
which it gives are too fugitive, and may be obtained by more permanent
dyes. Hellot employed it to dye a stuff, prepared with alum and tartar;
but the colour acquired had little permanence. It is almost solely used
for silks.

For silks intended to become aurora and orange, it is sufficient to
scour them at the rate of 20 per cent. of soap. When they have been well
cleansed, they are immersed in a bath prepared with water, to which is
added a quantity of alkaline solution of annotto, more or less
considerable according to the shade that may be wanted. This bath should
have a mean temperature, between that of tepid and boiling water.

When the silk has become uniform, one of the hanks is taken out, washed,
and wrung, to see if the colour be sufficiently full; if it be not so,
more solution of annotto is added, and the silk is turned again round
the sticks: the solution keeps without alteration.

When the desired shade is obtained, nothing remains but to wash the
silk, and give it two beetlings at the river, in order to free it from
the redundant annotto, which would injure the lustre of the colour.

When raw silks are to be dyed, those naturally white are chosen, and
dyed in the annotto bath, which should not be more than tepid, or even
cold, in order that the alkali may not attack the gum of the silk, and
deprive it of the elasticity which it is desirable for it to preserve.

What has been now said regards the silks to which the aurora shades are
to be given; but to make an orange hue, which contains more red than the
aurora, it is requisite, after dyeing with annotto, to redden the silks
with vinegar, alum, or lemon juice. The acid, by saturating the alkali
employed for dissolving the annotto, destroys the shade of yellow that
the alkali had given, and restores it to its natural colour, which
inclines a good deal to red.

For the deep shades, the practice at Paris, as Macquer informs us, is to
pass the silks through alum; and if the colour be not red enough, they
are passed through a faint bath of brazil wood. At Lyons, the dyers who
use carthamus, sometimes employ old baths of this ingredient for dipping
the deep oranges.

When the orange hues have been reddened by alum, they must be washed at
the river; but it is not necessary to beetle them, unless the colour
turns out too red.

Shades may be obtained also by a single operation, which retain a
reddish tint, employing for the annotto bath a less proportion of alkali
than has been pointed out.

Guhliche recommends to avoid heat in the preparation of annotto. He
directs it to be placed in a glass vessel, or in a glazed earthen one;
to cover it with a solution of pure alkali; to leave the mixture at rest
for 24 hours; to decant the liquor, filter it, and add water repeatedly
to the residuum, leaving the mixture each time at rest for two or three
days, till the water is no longer coloured; to mix all these liquors,
and preserve the whole for use in a well-stopped vessel.

He macerates the silk for 12 hours in a solution of alum, at the rate of
an eighth of this salt for one part of silk, or in a water rendered
acidulous by the aceto-citric acid above described; and he wrings it
well on its coming out of this bath.

Silk thus prepared is put into the annotto bath quite cold. It is kept
in agitation there till it has taken the shade sought for; or the liquor
may be maintained at a heat far below ebullition. On being taken out of
the bath, the silk is to be washed and dried in the shade.

For lighter hues, a liquor less charged with colour is taken; and a
little of the acid liquid which has served for the mordant may be added,
or the dyed silk may be passed through the acidulous water.

We have seen the following preparation employed for cotton velvet:--one
part of quicklime, one of potash, two of soda.

Of these a ley is formed, in which one part of annotto is dissolved; and
the mixture is boiled for an hour and a half. This bath affords the
liveliest and most brilliant auroras. The buff (chamois) fugitive dye is
also obtained with this solution. For this purpose only a little is
wanted; but we must never forget, that the colours arising from annotto
are all fugitive.

Dr. John found in the pulp surrounding the unfermented fresh seeds,
which are about the size of little peas, 28 parts of colouring resinous
matter, 26.5 of vegetable gluten, 20 of ligneous fibre, 20 of colouring
extractive matter, 4 formed of matters analogous to vegetable gluten and
extractive, and a trace of spicy and acid matters.

The Gloucestershire cheese is coloured with annotto, in the proportion
of one cwt. to an ounce of the dye.

When used in calico-printing, it is usually mixed with potash or ammonia
and starch.

It is an appropriate substance for tingeing varnishes, oils, spirits,
&c.

The import duty upon annotto is 1_s._ per cwt. for flag, and 4_s._ for
other sorts. In 1834, 252,981 lbs. were imported; and in 1835, 163,421
lbs. The revenue from this drug in these two years, was 180_l._ and
98_l._ respectively.


ANTHRACITE, from [Greek: anthrax], coal, is a species of coal found in
the transition rock formation, and is often called stone coal. It has a
grayish black, or iron black colour, an imperfectly metallic lustre,
conchoidal fracture, and a specific gravity of from 1.4 to 1.6, being,
therefore, much denser than the coal of the proper coal measures. It
consists wholly of carbon, with a small and variable proportion of
iron, silica, and alumina. It is difficult to kindle in separate masses,
and burns when in heaps or grates without smell or smoke, leaving
sometimes an earthy residuum. It has been little explored or worked in
the old world; but is extensively used in the United States of America,
and has become of late years a most valuable mineral to that country,
where it is burned in peculiar grates, adapted to its difficult
combustion. In Pennsylvania the anthracite coal formation has been
traced through a tract many miles in width, and extending across the two
entire counties of Luzerne and Schuylkill. At Maunch Chunk, upon the
Lehigh, 800 men were employed so far back as 1825, in digging this coal.
In that year 750,000 bushels were dispatched for Philadelphia. It is
worked there with little cost or labour, being situated on hills from
300 to 600 feet above the level of the neighbouring rivers and canals,
and existing in nearly horizontal beds, of from 15 to 40 feet in
thickness, covered by only a few feet of gravelly loam. At Portsmouth,
in Rhode Island, an extensive stratum of this coal has been worked, with
some interruptions, for 20 years; and more recently a mine of anthracite
has been opened at Worcester, in Massachusetts, at the head of the
Blackstone canal. It has been of late employed in South Wales, for
smelting iron, and in a cupola blast furnace, by Mr. Crane.


ANTIGUGGLER. A small syphon of metal, which is inserted into the mouths
of casks, or large bottles, called carboys, to admit air over the liquor
contained in them, and thus to facilitate their being emptied without
agitation or a guggling noise.


ANTIMONY. (_Antimoine_, Fr.; _Spiessglanz_, or _Spiessglass_, Ger.) The
only ore of this metal found in sufficient abundance to be smelted, is
the sulphuret, formerly called crude antimony. It occurs generally in
masses, consisting of needles closely aggregated, of a metallic lustre,
a lead-gray colour, inclining to steel-gray, which is unchanged in the
streak. The needles are extremely brittle, and melt even in the flame of
a candle, with the exhalation of a sulphureous smell. The powder of this
sulphuret is very black, and was employed by women in ancient times to
stain their eyebrows and eyelids. This ore consists in 100 parts of
72.86 metal, and 27.14 sulphur. Specific gravity from 4.13 to 4.6.

The veins of sulphuret of antimony occur associated with gangues of
quartz, sulphate of barytes, and carbonate of lime; those of Allemont
occur in the numerous fissures of a mica schist, evidently primitive.

In treating the ore to obtain the metal, the first object is to separate
the gangue, which was formerly done by filling crucibles with the mixed
materials, placing them on the hearth of an oven, and exposing them to a
moderate heat. As the sulphuret easily melts, it ran out through a hole
in the bottom of the crucible into a pot placed beneath, and out of the
reach of the fire. But the great loss from breakage of the crucibles,
has caused another method to be adopted. In this the broken ore, being
sorted, is laid on the bottom of a concave reverberatory hearth, where
it is reduced.

[Illustration: 18 19]

_Figs._ 18. 19. represent a wind or flame furnace, for the reduction of
antimony. The hearth is formed of sand and clay solidly beat together,
and slopes from all sides towards the middle, where it is connected with
the orifice _a_, which is closed with dense coal-ashes; _b_ is the air
channel up through the bridge; _c_, the door for introducing the
prepared ore, and running off the slags; _d_, the bridge; _e_, the
grate; _f_, the fire or fuel-door; _g_, the chimney. With 2 or 3 cwt. of
ore, the smelting process is completed in from 8 to 10 hours. The metal
thus obtained is not pure enough, but must be fused under coal dust, in
portions of 20 or 30 pounds, in crucibles, placed upon a reverberatory
hearth.

To obtain antimony free from iron, it should be fused with some
antimonic oxide in a crucible, whereby the iron is oxidized and
separated. The presence of arsenic in antimony is detected by the garlic
smell, emitted by such an alloy when heated at the blow-pipe; or,
better, by igniting it with nitre in a crucible; in which case,
insoluble antimonite and antimoniate of potash will be formed along with
soluble arseniate. Water digested upon the mixture, filtered, and then
tested with nitrate of silver, will afford the brown-red precipitate
characteristic of arsenic acid.

According to Berthier, the following materials afford, in smelting, an
excellent product of antimony: 100 parts of sulphuret; 60 of
hammerschlag (protoxide of iron from the shingling or rolling mills); 45
to 50 of carbonate of soda; and 10 of charcoal powder. From 65 to 70
parts of metallic antimony or regulus should be obtained. Glauber salts
may be used instead of soda. For another mode of smelting antimony, at
Malbosc, in the department of Ardeche, in France, see LIQUATION.

In the works where antimonial ores are smelted, by means of tartar
(argol), the alkaline scoriae, which cover the metallic ingots, are not
rejected as useless, for they hold a certain quantity of antimonial
oxide in combination; a property of the potash flux, which is propitious
to the purity of the metal. These scoriae, consisting of sulphuret of
potassium and antimonite of potash, being treated with water, undergo a
reciprocal decomposition; the elements of the water act on those of the
sulphuret, and the resulting alkaline hydro-sulphuret re-acts on the
antimonial solution, so as to form a species of _kermes mineral_, which
precipitates. This is dried, and sold at a low price as a veterinary
medicine, under the name of _kermes_, by the dry way.

Metallic antimony, as obtained by the preceding process, is the antimony
of commerce, but is not absolutely pure; containing frequently minute
portions of iron, lead, and even arsenic; the detection and separation
of which belong to the sciences of chemistry and pharmacy. Antimony is a
brittle metal, of a silvery white colour, with a tinge of blue, a
lamellar texture, and crystalline fracture. When heated at the blowpipe,
it melts with great readiness, and diffuses white vapours, possessing
somewhat of a garlic smell. If thrown in this melted state on a sheet of
flat paper, the globule sparkles, and bursts into a multitude of small
spheroids, which retain their incandescence for a long time, and run
about on the paper, leaving traces of the white oxide produced during
the combustion. When this oxide is fused with borax, or other vitrifying
matter, it imparts a yellow colour to it. Metallic antimony, treated
with hot nitric acid and in a concentrated state, is converted into a
powder, called antimonious acid, which is altogether insoluble in the
ordinary acid menstrua; a property by which the chemist can separate
that metal from lead, iron, copper, bismuth, and silver. According to
Bergman, the specific gravity of antimony is 6.86; but Haidinger makes
the Swedish native metal only 6.646. The alchemists had conceived the
most brilliant hopes of this metal; the facility with which it is
alloyed with gold, since its fumes alone render this most ductile metal
immediately brittle, led them to assign to it a royal lineage, and to
distinguish it by the title of _regulus_, or the little king.

Its chief employment now is in medicine, and in making the alloys called
type metal, stereotype metal, music plates, and Britannia-metal; the
first consisting of 6 of lead and 2 of antimony; the second of 6 of lead
and 1 of antimony; the third of lead, tin, and antimony; and the fourth
also of lead, tin, and antimony, with occasionally a little copper and
bismuth.--For Glass of antimony, see PASTES.


ANTISEPTICS. Substances which counteract the spontaneous decomposition
of animal and vegetable substances. These are chiefly culinary salt,
nitre, spices, and sugar, which operate partly by inducing a change in
the animal or vegetable fibres, and partly by rendering the aqueous
constituent unsusceptible of decomposition. See PROVISIONS, CURING OF.


ANVIL. A mass of iron, having a smooth and nearly flat top surface of
steel; upon which blacksmiths, and various other artificers, forge
metals with the hammer. The common anvil is usually made of seven
pieces: 1, the core, or body; 2, 3, 4, 5, the four corner pieces which
serve to enlarge its base; 6, the projecting end, which has a square
hole for the reception of the tail or shank of a chisel on which iron
bars may be cut through; and 7, the beak, or horizontal cone round which
rods or slips of metal may be turned into a circular form, as in making
rings. These 6 pieces are welded separately to the first, or core, and
then hammered into an uniform body. In manufacturing large anvils two
hearths are needed, in order to bring each of the two pieces to be
welded, to a proper heat by itself; and several men are employed in
working them together briskly in the welding state, by heavy swing
hammers. The steel facing is applied by welding in the same manner. The
anvil is then hardened by heating it to a cherry red, and plunging it
into cold water; a running stream being preferable to a pool or cistern.
The facing should not be too thick a plate, for, when such, it is apt to
crack in the hardening. The face of the anvil is now smoothed upon a
grindstone, and finally polished with emery and crocus, for all delicate
purposes of art.

The blacksmith, in general, sets his anvil loosely upon a wooden block,
and in preference on the root of an oak. But the cutlers and file-makers
fasten their anvils to a large block of stone; which is an advantage,
for the more firmly and solidly this tool is connected to the earth, the
more efficacious will be the blows of the hammer on any object placed
upon it.


AQUAFORTIS. Nitric acid, somewhat dilute, was so named by the alchemists
on account of its strong solvent and corrosive operation upon many
mineral, vegetable, and animal substances. See NITRIC ACID.


AQUA REGIA. The name given by the alchemists to that mixture of nitric
and muriatic acids which was best fitted to dissolve gold, styled by
them the king of the metals. It is now called _nitro-muriatic acid_.


AQUA VITAE. The name very absurdly given to alcohol, when used as an
intoxicating beverage. It has been the _aqua mortis_ to myriads of the
human race; and will, probably, ere long destroy all the native tribes
of North America and Australia.


ARCHIL. A violet red paste used in dyeing, of which the substance called
_cudbear_ in Scotland (from _Cuthbert_, its first preparer in that
form), is a modification. Two kinds of archil are distinguished in
commerce, the _archil_ plant of the Canaries, and that of Auvergne. The
first is most esteemed: it is prepared from the _lichen rocellus_, which
grows on rocks adjoining the sea in the Canary and Cape de Verde
Islands, in Sardinia, Minorca, &c., as well as on the rocks of Sweden.
The second species is prepared from the _lichen parellus_, which grows
on the basaltic rocks of Auvergne.

There are several other species of lichen which might be employed in
producing an analogous dye, were they prepared, like the preceding, into
the substance called _archil_. Hellot gives the following method for
discovering if they possess this property. A little of the plant is to
be put into a glass vessel; it is to be moistened with ammonia and
lime-water in equal parts; a little muriate of ammonia (sal ammoniac) is
added; and the small vessel is corked. If the plant be of a nature to
afford a red dye, after three or four days, the small portion of liquid,
which will run off on inclining the vessel, now opened, will be tinged
of a crimson red, and the plant itself will have assumed this colour. If
the liquor or the plant does not take this colour, nothing need be hoped
for; and it is useless to attempt its preparation on the great scale.
Lewis says, however, that he has tested in this way a great many mosses,
and that most of them afforded him a yellow or reddish brown colour; but
that he obtained from only a small number a liquor of a deep red, which
communicated to cloth merely a yellowish-red colour.

Prepared archil gives out its colour very readily to water, ammonia, and
alcohol. Its solution in alcohol is used for filling spirit-of-wine
thermometers; and when these thermometers are well freed from air, the
liquor loses its colour in some years, as Abbe Nollet observed. The
contact of air restores the colour, which is destroyed anew, in vacuo,
in process of time. The watery infusion loses its colour, by the
privation of air, in a few days; a singular phenomenon, which merits new
researches.

The infusion of archil is of a crimson bordering on violet. As it
contains ammonia, which has already modified its natural colour, the
fixed alkalies can produce little change on it, only deepening the
colour a little, and making it more violet. Alum forms in it a
precipitate of a brown red; and the supernatant liquid retains a
yellowish-red colour. The solution of tin affords a reddish precipitate,
which falls down slowly; the supernatant liquid retains a feeble red
colour. The other metallic salts produce precipitates which offer
nothing remarkable.

The watery solution of archil applied to cold marble, penetrates it,
communicating a beautiful violet colour, or a blue bordering on purple,
which resists the air much longer than the archil colours applied to
other substances. Dufay says, that he has seen marble tinged with this
colour preserve it without alteration at the end of two years.

To dye with archil, the quantity of this substance deemed necessary,
according to the quantity of wool or stuff to be dyed, and according to
the shade to which they are to be brought, is to be diffused in a bath
of water as soon as it begins to grow warm. The bath is then heated till
it be ready to boil, and the wool or stuff is passed through it without
any other preparation, except keeping that longest in, which is to have
the deepest shade. A fine gridelin, bordering upon violet, is thereby
obtained; but this colour has no permanence. Hence archil is rarely
employed with any other view than to modify, heighten, and give lustre
to the other colours. Hellot says, that having employed archil on wool
boiled with tartar and alum, the colour resisted the air no more than
what had received no preparation. But he obtained from herb archil
(_l'orseille d'herbe_) a much more durable colour, by putting in the
bath some solution of tin. The archil thereby loses its natural colour,
and assumes one approaching more or less to scarlet, according to the
quantity of solution of tin employed. This process must be executed in
nearly the same manner as that of scarlet, except that the dyeing may be
performed in a single bath.

Archil is frequently had recourse to for varying the different shades
and giving them lustre; hence it is used for violets, lilacs, mallows,
and rosemary flowers. To obtain a deeper tone, as for the deep _soupes
au vin_, sometimes a little alkali or milk of lime is mixed with it. The
suites of this browning may also afford agates, rosemary flowers, and
other delicate colours, which cannot be obtained so beautiful by other
processes. Alum cannot be substituted for this purpose; it not only does
not give this lustre, but it degrades the deep colours.

The herb-archil is preferable to the archil of Auvergne, from the
greater bloom which it communicates to the colours, and from the larger
quantity of colouring matter. It has, besides, the advantage of bearing
ebullition. The latter, moreover, does not answer with alum, which
destroys the colour; but the herb archil has the inconvenience of dyeing
in an irregular manner, unless attention be given to pass the cloth
through hot water as soon as it comes out of the dye.

Archil alone is not used for dyeing silk, unless for lilacs; but silk is
frequently passed through a bath of archil, either before dyeing it in
other baths or after it has been dyed, in order to modify different
colours, or to give them lustre. Examples of this will be given in
treating of the compound colours. It is sufficient here to point out how
white silks are passed through the archil bath. The same process is
performed with a bath more or less charged with this colour, for silks
already dyed.

Archil, in a quantity proportioned to the colour desired, is to be
boiled in a copper. The clear liquid is to be run off quite hot from the
archil bath, leaving the sediment at the bottom, into a tub of proper
size, in which the silks, newly scoured with soap, are to be turned
round on the skein-sticks with much exactness, till they have attained
the wished-for shade. After this they must receive one beetling at the
river.

Archil is in general a very useful ingredient in dyeing; but as it is
rich in colour, and communicates an alluring bloom, dyers are often
tempted to abuse it, and to exceed the proportions that can add to the
beauty without at the same time injuring in a dangerous manner the
permanence of the colours. Nevertheless, the colour obtained when
solution of tin is employed, is less fugitive than without this
addition: it is red, approaching to scarlet. Tin appears to be the only
ingredient which can increase its durability. The solution of tin may be
employed, not only in the dyeing bath, but for the preparation of the
silk. In this case, by mixing the archil with other colouring
substances, dyes may be obtained which have lustre with sufficient
durability.

We have spoken of the colour of the archil as if it were natural to it;
but it is, really, due to an alkaline combination. The acids make it
pass to red, either by saturating the alkali, or by substituting
themselves for the alkali.

The lichen which produces archil is subjected to another preparation, to
make turnsole (litmus). This article is made in Holland. The lichen
comes from the Canary Islands, and also from Sweden. It is reduced to a
fine powder by means of a mill, and a certain proportion of potash is
mixed with it. The mixture is watered with urine, and allowed to suffer
a species of fermentation. When this has arrived at a certain degree,
carbonate of lime in powder is added, to give consistence and weight to
the paste, which is afterwards reduced into small parallelopipeds that
are carefully dried.

The latest researches on the lichens, as objects of manufacture, are
those of Westring of Stockholm. He examined 150 species, among which he
found several which might be rendered useful. He recommends that the
colouring matter should be extracted in the places where they grow,
which would save a vast expense in curing, package, carriage, and waste.
He styles the colouring substance itself cutbear, persio, or turnsole;
and distributes the lichens as follows:--1st. Those which left to
themselves, exposed to moderate heat and moisture, may be fixed without
a mordant upon wool or silk; such are the L. _cinereus_, _aematonta_,
_ventosus_, _corallinus_, _westringii_, _saxatilis_, _conspassus_,
_barbatus_, _plicatus_, _vulpinus_, &c.

2. Those which develop a colouring matter fixable likewise without
mordant, but which require boiling and a complicated preparation; such
are the lichens _subcarneus_, _dillenii_, _farinaceus_, _jubatus_,
_furfuraceus_, _pulmonareus_, _cornigatus_, _cocciferus_, _digitatus_,
_ancialis_, _aduncus_, &c. Saltpetre or sea-salt are requisite to
improve the lustre and fastness of the dye given by this group to silk.

3. Those which require a peculiar process to develop their colour; such
as those which become purple through the agency of stale urine or
ammonia. Westring employed the following mode of testing:--He put three
or four drachms of the dried and powdered lichen into a flask; moistened
it with three or four measures of cold spring water; put the stuff to be
dyed into the mixture, and left the flask in a cool place. Sometimes he
added a little salt, saltpetre, quicklime, or sulphate of copper. If no
colour appeared, he then moistened the lichen with water containing one
twentieth of sal ammoniac, and one tenth of quicklime, and set the
mixture aside in a cool place from eight to fourteen days. There
appeared in most cases a reddish or violet coloured tint. Thus the
_lichen cinereus_ dyed silk a deep carmelite, and wool a light
carmelite; the _l. physodes_ gave a yellowish-gray; the _pustulatus_, a
rose red; _sanguinarius_, gray; _tartareus_, found on the rocks of
Norway, Scotland, and England, dyes a crimson-red. In Jutland, cutbear
is made from it, by grinding the dry lichen, sifting it, then setting it
to ferment in a close vessel with ammonia. The lichen must be of the
third year's growth to yield an abundant dye; and that which grows near
the sea is the best. It loses half its weight by drying. A single person
may gather from twenty to thirty pounds a day in situations where it
abounds. No less than 2,239,685 pounds were manufactured at
Christiansand, Flekkefiort, and Fakrsund, in Norway, in the course of
the six years prior to 1812. Since more solid dyes of the same shade
have been invented, the archil has gone much into disuse. Federigo, of
Florence, who revived its use at the beginning of the fourteenth
century, made such an immense fortune by its preparation, that his
family became one of the grandees of that city, under the name of
Oricellarii, or Rucellarii. For more than a century Italy possessed the
exclusive art of making archil, obtaining the lichens from the islands
of the Mediterranean. According to an official report of 1831, Teneriffe
furnished annually 500 quintals (cwts.) of lichen; the Canary Isles,
400; Fuerta Santura, 300; Lancerot, 300; Gomera, 300; isle of Ferro,
800. This business belonged to the crown, and brought it a revenue of
1500 piastres. The farmers paid from 15 to 20 reals for the right to
gather each quintal. At that time the quintal fetched in the London
market 4_l._ sterling.

Archil is perhaps too much used in some cloth factories of England, to
the discredit of our dyes. It is said, that by its aid one third of the
indigo may be saved in the blue vat; but the colour is so much the more
perishable. The fine soft tint induced upon much of the black cloth by
means of archil is also deceptive. One half-pound of cutbear will dye
one pound of woollen cloth. A crimson red is obtained by adding to the
decoction of archil a little salt of tin (muriate), and passing the
cloth through the bath, after it has been prepared by a mordant of tin
and tartar. It must be afterwards passed through hot water.


ARDENT SPIRIT. Alcohol of moderate strength.


AREOMETER OF BAUME. This scale is much used by the French authors.

Specific Gravity Numbers corresponding with Baume's Areometric Degrees.

  +-----------------------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      Liquids denser than Water.         |  Less dense than Water.   |
  +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |      | Spe- |      | Spe- |      | Spe- |      | Spe- |      | Spe- |
  | De-  |cific | De-  |cific | De-  |cific | De-  |cific | De-  |cific |
  |grees.|gravi-|grees.|gravi-|grees.|gravi-|grees.|gravi-|grees.|gravi-|
  |      | ty.  |      | ty.  |      | ty.  |      | ty.  |      | ty.  |
  +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   0  |1.0000|  26  |1.2063|  52  |1.5200|  10  |1.0000|  36  |0.8488|
  |   1  |1.0066|  27  |1.2160|  53  |1.5353|  11  |0.9932|  37  |0.8439|
  |   2  |1.0133|  28  |1.2258|  54  |1.5510|  12  |0.9865|  38  |0.8391|
  |   3  |1.0201|  29  |1.2358|  55  |1.5671|  13  |0.9799|  39  |0.8313|
  |   4  |1.0270|  30  |1.2459|  56  |1.5833|  14  |0.9733|  40  |0.8295|
  |   5  |1.0340|  31  |1.2562|  57  |1.6000|  15  |0.9669|  41  |0.8249|
  +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |   6  |1.0411|  32  |1.2667|  58  |1.6170|  16  |0.9605|  42  |0.8202|
  |   7  |1.0483|  33  |1.2773|  59  |1.6344|  17  |0.9542|  43  |0.8156|
  |   8  |1.0556|  34  |1.2881|  60  |1.6522|  18  |0.9480|  44  |0.8111|
  |   9  |1.0630|  35  |1.2992|  61  |1.6705|  19  |0.9420|  45  |0.8066|
  |  10  |1.0704|  36  |1.3103|  62  |1.6889|  20  |0.9359|  46  |0.8022|
  +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |  11  |1.0780|  37  |1.3217|  63  |1.7079|  21  |0.9300|  47  |0.7978|
  |  12  |1.0857|  38  |1.3333|  64  |1.7273|  22  |0.9241|  48  |0.7935|
  |  13  |1.0935|  39  |1.3451|  65  |1.7471|  23  |0.9183|  49  |0.7892|
  |  14  |1.1014|  40  |1.3571|  66  |1.7674|  24  |0.9125|  50  |0.7849|
  |  15  |1.1095|  41  |1.3694|  67  |1.7882|  25  |0.9068|  51  |0.7807|
  +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |  16  |1.1176|  42  |1.3818|  68  |1.8095|  26  |0.9012|  52  |0.7766|
  |  17  |1.1259|  43  |1.3945|  69  |1.8313|  27  |0.8957|  53  |0.7725|
  |  18  |1.1343|  44  |1.4074|  70  |1.8537|  28  |0.8902|  54  |0.7684|
  |  19  |1.1428|  45  |1.4206|  71  |1.8765|  29  |0.8848|  55  |0.7643|
  |  20  |1.1515|  46  |1.4339|  72  |1.9000|  30  |0.8795|  56  |0.7604|
  +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  |  21  |1.1603|  47  |1.4476|  73  |1.9241|  31  |0.8742|  57  |0.7656|
  |  22  |1.1692|  48  |1.4615|  74  |1.9487|  32  |0.8690|  58  |0.7526|
  |  23  |1.1783|  49  |1.4758|  75  |1.9740|  33  |0.8639|  59  |0.7487|
  |  24  |1.1875|  50  |1.4902|  76  |2.0000|  34  |0.8588|  60  |0.7449|
  |  25  |1.1968|  51  |1.4951|      |      |  35  |0.8538|  61  |0.7411|
  +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+


ARGILLACEOUS EARTH. The earth of clay, called in chemistry alumina,
because it is obtained in greatest purity from alum.


ARGOL. Crude _tartar_; which see.


ARMS. Weapons of war. See FIRE-ARMS for an account of this manufacture.


ARRACK. A kind of intoxicating beverage made in India, by distilling the
fermented juice of the cocoa-nut, the palmyra tree, and rice in the
husk.


ARROW ROOT. The root of the _maranta arundinacea_, a plant which grows
in the West Indies, furnishes, by pounding in mortars and elutriation
through sieves, a peculiar species of starch, commonly but improperly
called arrow root. It is reckoned more nourishing than the starch of
wheat or potatoes, and is generally also freer from peculiar taste or
flavour. The fresh root consists, according to Benzon, of 0.07 of
volatile oil; 26 of starch (23 of which are obtained in the form of
powder, while the other 3 must be extracted from the parenchyma in a
paste by boiling water); 1.58 of vegetable albumen; 0.6 of a gummy
extract; 0.25 of chloride of calcium; 6 of insoluble fibrine; and 65.6
of water.

The import duty upon arrow root from our own colonies, is 1_s._ per
cwt.; from foreign parts, 2_d._ per lib. In 1835, 987,966 lbs. were
imported, of which only 6267 were exported; leaving 895,406 for home
consumption. The total revenue derived that year from arrow root, was
518_l._ See STARCH.


ARSENIC. This metal occurs native, in the state of oxide, and also
combined with sulphur under the improper name of _yellow_ and _red
arsenic_, or orpiment and realgar. Arsenic is associated with a great
many metallic ores; but it is chiefly extracted from those of cobalt, by
roasting, in which case the white oxide of arsenic, or, more correctly,
the arsenious acid is obtained. This acid is introduced occasionally in
small quantities into the materials of flint glass, either before their
fusion, or in the melting pot. It serves to peroxidize the iron oxide in
the sand, and thereby to purify the body of the glass; but an excess of
it makes the glass milky.

_Scheele's green_ is a combination of this arsenious acid with oxide of
copper, or an arsenite of copper, and is described under this metal.

_Arseniate of potash_ is prepared, in the small way, by exposing to a
moderate heat in a crucible, a mixture of equal parts of white arsenic
and nitre in powder. After fusion, the crucible is to be cooled; the
contents being dissolved in hot water, and the solution filtered, will
afford regular crystals on cooling. According to M. Berzelius, they are
composed of arsenic acid, 63.87; potash, 26.16; and water, 9.97. It is
an acidulous salt, and is hence usually called the binarseniate, to
denote that its composition is 2 atoms of arsenic acid, and 1 of potash.
This article is prepared upon the great scale, in Saxony, by melting
nitre and arsenious acid together in a cylinder of cast-iron. A neutral
arseniate also is readily formed, by saturating the excess of acid in
the above salt with potash; it does not crystallize. The acid arseniate
is occasionally used in calico printing, for preventing certain points
of the cotton cloth from taking on the mordant; with which view it is
mixed up with gum water and pipe clay into a paste, which is applied to
such places with a block.

The extraction of arsenic from the cobalt ores, is performed at
Altenberg and Reichenstein, in Silesia, with an apparatus, excellently
contrived to protect the health of the smelters from the vapours of this
most noxious metallic sublimate.

[Illustration: 20]

[Illustration: 23]

_Figs._ 20. to 23. represent the arsenical furnaces at Altenberg. _Fig._
20. is a vertical section of the poison tower; _fig._ 21., a
longitudinal section of the subliming furnace A, with the adjoining
vault B, and the poison tower in part at _n_; _fig._ 22., the transverse
section of the furnace A, of _fig._ 21.; _fig._ 23., ground plan of the
furnace A, where the left half shows the part above, and the right the
part below the muffle or oblong retort; B' is the upper view, B'' the
ground plan of the vault B, of _fig._ 21.; _m_, _n_, the base of the
poison tower. In the several figures the same letters denote the same
objects: _a_ is the muffle; _b_ is its mouth for turning over the
arsenical schlich, or ground ore; _c c c_, fire draughts or flues; _d_,
an aperture for charging the muffle with fresh schlich; _e_, the smoke
chimney; _f_, two channels or flues for the ascent of the arsenious
fumes, which proceed to other two flues _g_, and then terminate both in
_h_, which conducts the fumes into the vault B. They issue by the door
_i_, into the conduit _k_, thence by _l_ into the spaces _m_, _n_, _o_,
_p_, _q_, _r_, of the tower. The incondensable gases escape by the
chimney, _s_. The cover _t_, is removed after completion of the
process, in order to push down the precipitate into the lower
compartments.

[Illustration: 22 21]

The arsenious schlichs, to the amount of 9 or 10 cwt. for one operation
(1 _roast-post_, or roasting round), are spread 2 or 3 inches thick upon
the bottom of the muffle, heated with a brisk fire to redness, then with
a gentler heat, in order to oxidize completely, before subliming, the
arsenical ore. With this view the air must have free entrance, and the
front aperture of the muffle must be left quite open. After 11 or 12
hours, the calcined materials are raked out by the mouth of the muffle,
and fresh ones are introduced by the openings indicated above, which are
closed during the sublimation.

The arsenious acid found in these passages, is not marketable till it be
re-sublimed in large iron pots, surmounted with a series of sheet iron
drums or cast-iron cylinders, upon the sides of which the arsenic is
condensed in its compact glassy form. The top cylinder is furnished with
a pipe, which terminates in a condensing chamber.

[Illustration: 24]

_Figs._ 24, 25. represent the arsenic refining furnaces at Reichenstein.
_Fig._ 24. shows at A, a vertical section of the furnace, the kettle,
and the surmounting drums or cylinders; over B it is seen in elevation;
_fig._ 25. is a ground plan of the four fireplaces. _a_ is the grate;
_b_, the ash pit; _c_, the openings for firing; _d_, the fire-place;
_e_, iron pots or kettles which are charged with the arsenious powder;
_f_, the fire flues proceeding to the common chimney _g_; _h_, iron
cylinders; _i_, caps; _k_, pipes leading to the poison vent _l_; _m_,
openings in the pipes for introducing the probing wires.

[Illustration: 25]

The conduct of the process is as follows:--The pot is filled nearly to
its brim with 3-1/2 cwt. of the arsenic meal, the cylinders are fitted
on by means of their handles, and luted together with a mixture of loam,
blood, and hair; then is applied first a gentle, and after half an hour,
a strong fire, whereby the arsenic is raised partly in the form of a
white dust, and partly in crystals; which, by the continuance of the
heat, fuse together into a homogeneous mass. If the fire be too feeble,
only a sublimate is obtained; but, if too violent, much of the arsenic
is volatilized into the pipes. The workmen judge by the heat of the
cylinders whether the operation be going on well or not. After 12 hours
the furnace is allowed to cool, provided the probe wires show that the
sublimation is over. The cylinders are then lifted off, and the
arsenious glass is detached from their inner surface. According to the
quality of the poison-flour, it yields from 3/4 to 7/8 of its weight of
the glass or enamel. Should any dark particles of metallic arsenic be
intermixed with the glass, a fresh sublimation must be had recourse to.

The following is the product in cwts. of arsenious acid, at Altenberg
and Reichenstein, in Silesia, in the years

  +------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
  |                  |1825.|1826.|1827.|1828.|1829.|1830.|1831.|1832.|
  +------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
  |White arsenic in a|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  |glassy state      | 2632| 1703| 2686| 1900| 2070| 2961| 3337| 2730|
  |Sublimed arsenic  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  |in powder         |   - |   27|   33|   31|   30|   44|   69|   38|
  |Yellow arsenical  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  |glass             |  112|   11|   56|   - |   86|  313|   60|  219|
  |Red arsenical     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  |glass             |    3|   - |   - |   - |   28|     |     |     |
  +------------------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


ARTESIAN WELLS. Under this name is designated a cylindrical perforation,
bored vertically down through one or more of the geological strata of
the earth, till it passes into a porous gravel bed containing water,
placed under such incumbent pressure as to make it mount up through the
perforation, either to the surface or to a height convenient for the
operation of a pump. In the first case, these wells are called spouting
or overflowing. This property is not directly proportional to the depth,
as might at first sight be supposed, but to the subjacent pressure upon
the water. We do not know exactly the period at which the borer or sound
was applied to the investigation of subterranean fountains, but we
believe the first overflowing wells were made in the ancient French
province of Artois, whence the name of Artesian. These wells, of such
importance to agriculture and manufactures, and which cost nothing to
keep them in condition, have been in use, undoubtedly, for several
centuries in the northern departments of France, and the north of Italy;
but it is not more than 50 or 60 years since they became known in
England and Germany. There are now a great many such wells in London and
its neighbourhood, perforated through the immensely thick bed of the
London clay, and even through some portions of the subjacent chalk. The
boring of such wells has given much insight into the geological
structure of many districts.

The formation of artesian wells depends on two things, essentially
distinct from each other: 1. On an acquaintance with the physical
constitution, or nature, of the mineral structure of each particular
country; and, 2. On the skilful direction of the processes by which we
can reach the water level, and of those by which we can promote its
ascent in the tube. We shall first treat of the best method of making
the well, and then offer some general remarks on the other subjects.

The operations employed for penetrating the soil are entirely similar to
those daily practised by the miner, in boring to find metallic veins;
but the well excavator must resort to peculiar expedients to prevent the
purer water, which comes from deep strata, mingling with the cruder
waters of the alluvial beds near the surface of the ground, as also to
prevent the small perforation getting eventually filled with rubbish.

The cause of overflowing wells has been ascribed to a variety of
circumstances. But, as it is now generally admitted that the numerous
springs which issue from the ground proceed from the infiltration of the
waters progressively condensed in rain, dew, snow, &c. upon the surface
of our globe, the theory of these interior streamlets becomes by no
means intricate; being analogous to that of syphons and water jets, as
expounded in the treatises of physics. The waters are diffused, after
condensation, upon the surface of the soil, and percolate downwards,
through the various pores and fissures of the geological strata, to be
again united subterraneously in veins, rills, streamlets, or expanded
films, of greater or less magnitude, or regularity. The beds traversed
by numerous disjunctions will give occasion to numerous interior
currents in all directions, which cannot be recovered, and brought to
the day; but when the ground is composed of strata of sand, or gravel
very permeable to water, separated by other strata nearly impervious to
it, reservoirs are formed to our hand, from which an abundant supply of
water may be spontaneously raised. In this case, as soon as the upper
stratum is perforated, the waters may rise, in consequence of the
hydrostatic pressure upon the lower strata, and even overflow the
surface in a constant stream, provided the level from which they proceed
be proportionally higher.

The sheets of water occur principally at the separation of two
contiguous formations; and, if the succession of the geological strata
be considered, this distribution of the water will be seen to be its
necessary consequence. In fact, the lower beds are frequently composed
of compact sandstone or limestone, and the upper beds of clay. In level
countries, the formations being almost always in horizontal-beds, the
waters which feed the artesian wells must come from districts somewhat
remote, where the strata are more elevated, as towards the secondary and
transition rocks. The copious streams condensed upon the sides of these
colder lands may be therefore regarded as the proper reservoirs of our
wells.

[Illustration: 26]

_Fig._ 26. represents the manner in which the condensed water of the
heavens distributes itself under the surface of our globe. Here we have
a geological section, showing the succession of the several formations,
and the sheets or laminae of water that exist at their boundaries, as
well as in their sandy beds. The figure shows also very plainly that the
height to which the water reascends in the bore of a well depends upon
the height of the reservoir which supplies the sheet of water to which
the well is perforated. Thus the well A, having gone down to the aqueous
expanse A A, whose waters of supply are derived from the percolation M,
will afford rising waters, which will come to the surface; whilst in the
well B, supplied by the sheet P, the waters will spout above the
surface, and in the well C they will remain short of it. The same figure
shows that these wells often traverse sheets of water, which rise to
different heights. Thus, in the well C there are five columns of
ascending waters, which rise to heights proportional to the points
whence they take their origin. Several of these will be spouting or
overflowing, but some will remain beneath the surface.

[Illustration: 27]

The situation of the intended well being determined upon, a circular
hole is generally dug in the ground, about 6 or 8 feet deep, and 5 or 6
feet wide. In the centre of this hole the boring is carried on by two
workmen below, assisted by a labourer above, as shown in _fig._ 27.

[Illustration: 28 29]

The handle (_fig._ 28.) having a female screw in the bottom of its iron
shank, with a wooden bar or rail passing through the socket of the
shank, and a ring at top, is the general agent to which all the boring
implements are to be attached. A chisel (_fig._ 29.) is first employed,
and connected to this handle by its screw at top. If the ground is
tolerably soft, the weight of the two workmen bearing upon the cross
bar, and occasionally forcing it round, will soon cause the chisel to
penetrate; but if the ground is hard or strong, the workmen strike the
chisel down with repeated blows, so as to peck their way, often changing
their situation by walking round, which breaks the stones, or other hard
substances, that may happen to obstruct its progress.

The labour is very considerably reduced, by means of an elastic wooden
pole, placed horizontally over the well, from which a chain is brought
down, and attached to the ring of the handle. This pole is usually made
fast at one end, as a fulcrum, by being set into a heap of heavy loose
stones; at the other end the labourer above gives it a slight up and
down vibrating motion, corresponding to the beating motion of the
workmen below, by which means the elasticity of the pole in rising lifts
the handle and pecker, and thereby very considerably diminishes the
labour of the workmen. See _fig._ 27.

[Illustration: 30 31 32]

When the hole has been thus opened by a chisel, as far as its strength
would permit, the chisel is withdrawn, and a sort of cylindrical auger
(_fig._ 30.) attached to the handle (_fig._ 28.), for the purpose of
drawing up the dirt or broken stones which have been disturbed by the
chisel. A section of this auger is shown in _fig._ 31., by which the
internal valve will be seen. The auger being introduced into the hole,
and turned round by the workman, the dirt or broken stones will pass
through the aperture at bottom (shown at _fig._ 32.), and fill the
cylinder, which is then drawn up, and discharged at the top of the
auger, the valve preventing its escape at bottom.

[Illustration: 33 34 35 36 37]

In order to penetrate deeper into the ground, an iron rod, as _a_,
_fig._ 33., is now to be attached to the chisel, _fig._ 29., by screwing
on to its upper end, and the rod is also fastened to the handle, _fig._
28., by screwing into its socket. The chisel having thus become
lengthened, by the addition of the rod, it is again introduced into the
hole; and the operation of pecking or forcing it down, is carried on by
the workmen as before. When the ground has been thus perforated, as far
as the chisel and its rod will reach, they must be withdrawn, in order
again to introduce the auger, _fig._ 30., to collect and bring up the
rubbish; which is done by attaching it to the iron rod, in place of the
chisel. Thus as the hole becomes deepened, other lengths of iron rods
are added, by connecting them together, as _a b_ are in _fig._ 34. The
necessity of frequently withdrawing the rods from the holes, in order to
collect the mud, stones, or rubbish, and the great friction produced by
the rubbing of the tools against its sides, as well as the lengths of
rods augmenting in the progress of the operation, sometimes to the
extent of several hundred feet, render it extremely inconvenient, if not
impossible, to raise them by hand. A tripedal standard is, therefore,
generally constructed by three scaffolding poles tied together, over the
hole, as shown _fig._ 27., from the centre of which a wheel and axle, or
a pair of pully blocks is suspended, for the purpose of hauling up the
rods, and from which hangs the fork, _fig._ 35. This fork is to be
brought down under the shoulder, near the top of each rod, and made fast
to it by passing a pin through two little holes in the claws. The rods
are thus drawn up, about seven feet at a time, which is the usual
distance between each joint, and at every haul a fork, _fig._ 36., is
laid horizontally over the hole, with the shoulders of the lower rod
resting between its claws, by which means the rods are prevented from
sinking down into the hole again, while the upper length is unscrewed
and removed. In attaching and detaching these lengths of rod, a wrench,
_fig._ 37., is employed, by which they are turned round, and the screws
forced up to their firm bearing.

[Illustration: 38]

The boring is sometimes performed for the first sixty or a hundred feet,
by a chisel of 2-1/2 inches wide, and cleared out by a gouge of 2-1/4
diameter, and then the hole is widened by a tool, such as is shown at
_fig._ 38. This is merely a chisel, as _fig._ 29., four inches wide, but
with a guide, _a_, put on at its lower part, for the purpose of keeping
it in a perpendicular direction; the lower part is not intended to peck,
but to pass down the hole previously made, while the sides of the chisel
operate in enlarging the hole to four inches. The process, however, is
generally performed at one operation, by a chisel of four inches wide,
as _fig._ 29., and a gouge of three inches and three quarters, as _fig._
30.

It is obvious, that placing and displacing the lengths of rod, which is
done every time that the auger is required to be introduced or
withdrawn, must, of itself, be extremely troublesome, independent of the
labour of boring, but yet the operation proceeds, when no unpropitious
circumstances attend it, with a facility almost incredible. Sometimes,
however, rocks intercept the way, which require great labour to
penetrate; but this is always effected by pecking, which slowly
pulverises the stone. The most unpleasant circumstance attendant upon
this business is the occasional breaking of a rod into the hole, which
sometimes creates a delay of many days, and an incalculable labour in
drawing up the lower portion.

When the water is obtained in such quantities and of such quality as may
be required, the hole is dressed or finished by passing down it a
diamond chisel, funnel mouthed, with a triangular bit in its centre;
this makes the sides smooth previous to putting in the pipe. This chisel
is attached to rods, and to the handle, as before described; and, in its
descent, the workmen continually walk round, by which the hole is made
smooth and cylindrical. In the progress of the boring, frequent veins of
water are passed through; but, as these are small streams, and perhaps
impregnated with mineral substances, the operation is carried on until
an aperture is made into a main spring, which will flow up to the
surface of the earth. This must, of course, depend upon the level of its
source, which, if in a neighbouring hill, will frequently cause the
water to rise up, and produce a continued fountain. But if the altitude
of the distant spring happens to be below the level of the surface of
the ground where the boring is effected, it sometimes happens that a
well of considerable capacity is obliged to be dug down to that level,
in order to form a reservoir, into which the water may flow, and whence
it must be raised by a pump; while, in the former instance, a perpetual
fountain may be obtained. Hence, it will always be a matter of doubt, in
level countries, whether water can be procured, which would flow near to
or over the surface; if this cannot be effected, the process of boring
will be of little or no advantage, except as an experiment to ascertain
the fact.

In order to keep the strata pure, and uncontaminated with mineral
springs, the hole is cased, for a considerable depth, with a metallic
pipe, about a quarter of an inch smaller than the bore. This is
generally made of tin (though sometimes of copper or lead) in convenient
lengths; and, as each length is let down, it is held by a shoulder
resting in a fork, while another length is soldered to it; by which
means a continuous pipe is carried through the bore, as far as may be
found necessary, to exclude land springs, and to prevent loose earth or
sand from falling in, and choking the aperture.

Mr. John Good, of Tottenham, who had been extensively employed in boring
the earth for water, obtained a patent, in Aug. 1823, for certain
improved implements contrived by him to facilitate his useful labours; a
description of which cannot fail to be interesting.

[Illustration: 39 40 41 42]

The figures annexed exhibit these ingenious tools; _fig._ 39. is an
auger, to be connected by the screw-head to the length of rods by which
the boring is carried on. This auger is for boring in soft clay or sand;
it is cylindrical, and has a slit or opening from end to end, and a bit,
or cutting-piece at bottom. When the earth is loose or wet, an auger of
the same form is to be employed, but the slit or opening reduced in
width, or even without a slit or opening. A similar auger is used for
cutting through chalk; but the point or bit at bottom should then
project lower, and, for that purpose, some of these cylindrical augers
are made with moveable bits, to be attached by screws, which is
extremely desirable in grinding them to cutting edges. _Fig._ 40. is a
hollow conical auger, for boring loose sandy soils; it has a spiral
cutting edge coiled round it, which, as it turns, causes the loose soil
to ascend up the inclined plane, and deposit itself in the hollow
within. _Fig._ 41. is a hollow cylinder or tube, shown in section, with
a foot-valve, and a bucket to be raised by a rod and cord attached at
the top; this is a pumping tool, for the purpose of getting up water and
sand that would not rise by the auger. When this cylinder is lowered to
the bottom of the bore, the bucket is lifted up by the rod and cord, and
descends again by its own gravity, having a valve in the bucket, opening
upwards, like other lift pumps; which, at every stroke, raises a
quantity of water and sand in the cylinder equal to the stroke; the
ascent and descent of the bucket being limited by a guide-piece at the
top of the cylinder, and two small knobs upon the rod, which stop
against the cross-guide. _Fig._ 42. is a tool for getting up broken
rods. It consists of a small cylindrical piece at bottom, which the
broken rod slips through when it is lowered, and a small catch with a
knife-edge, acted upon by a back-spring. In rising, the tool takes hold
of the broken rod, and thereby enables the workmen at top to draw it up.
Another tool for the same purpose, is shown at _fig._ 43., which is like
a pair of tongs; it is intended to be slidden down the bore, and for the
broken rod to pass between the two catches, which, pressed by
back-springs, will, when drawn up, take fast hold of the broken rod.

[Illustration: 43 44 45 46]

_Fig._ 44. is a tool for widening the hole, to be connected, like all
the others, to the end of the length of rods passed down the bore; this
tool has two cutting-pieces extending on the sides at bottom, by which,
as the tool is turned round in the bore, the earth is peeled away.
_Fig._ 45. is a chisel, or punch, with a projecting piece to be used for
penetrating through stone; this chisel is, by rising and falling, made
to peck the stone, and pulverize it; the small middle part breaking it
away first, and afterwards the broad part coming into action. _Fig._ 46.
is another chisel, or punching tool, twisted on its cutting edge, which
breaks away a greater portion of the stone as it beats against it.

[Illustration: 47 48 49]

The manner of forcing down lengths of cast-iron pipe, after the bore is
formed, is shown at _fig._ 47.; the pipe is seen below in the socket, at
the end of which a block is inserted; and from this block a rod extends
upwards, upon which a weight at top slides. To this weight cords are
shown to be attached, reaching to the top of the bore; where the workmen
alternately raise the weight and let it fall, which, by striking upon
the block in its middle, beats down the pipe by a succession of strokes;
and when one length of pipe has, by these means, been forced down,
another length is introduced into the socket of the former. Another
tool for the same purpose is shown at _fig._ 48., which is formed like
an acorn; the raised part of the acorn strikes against the edge of the
pipe, and by that means, it is forced down the bore. When it happens
that an auger breaks in the hole, a tool similar to that shown at _fig._
49. is introduced; on one side of this tool a curved piece is attached,
for the purpose of a guide, to conduct it past the cylindrical auger;
and at the end of the other side is a hook, which, taking hold of the
bottom edge of the auger, enables it to be drawn up.

[Illustration: 50 51 52]

Wrought iron, copper, tin, and lead pipes, are occasionally used for
lining the bore; and as these are subject to bends and bruises, it is
necessary to introduce tools for the purpose of straightening their
sides. One of these tools is shown at _fig._ 50., which is a bow, and is
to be passed down the inside of the pipe, in order to press out any
dents. Another tool, for the same purpose, is shown at _fig._ 51., which
is a double bow, and may be turned round in the pipe for the purpose of
straightening it all the way down; at _fig._ 52., is a pair of clams,
for turning the pipe round in the hole while driving.

[Illustration: 53 54]

When loose stones lie at the bottom of the hole, which are too large to
be brought up by the cylindrical auger, and cannot be conveniently
broken, then it is proposed to introduce a triangular claw, as _fig._
53., the internal notches of which take hold of the stone, and as the
tool rises, bring it up. For raising broken rods, a tool like _fig._ 54.
is sometimes employed, which has an angular claw that slips under the
shoulder of the rod, and holds it fast while drawing up.

[Illustration: 55 56]

In raising pipes, it is necessary to introduce a tool into the inside of
the pipe, by which it will be held fast. _Fig._ 55. is a pine-apple tool
for this purpose; its surface is cut like a rasp, which passes easily
down into the pipe, but catches as it is drawn up; and by that means
brings the pipe with it. _Fig._ 56. is a spear for the same purpose,
which easily enters the pipe by springing; at the ends of its prongs
there are forks which stick into the metal as it is drawn up, and
thereby raise it.

These are the new implements, for which the patent was granted. In the
process of boring, there does not appear to be any thing new proposed;
but that these several tools are to be employed for boring, packing, and
otherwise penetrating, raising the earth, and extracting broken or
injured tools. There are also suggestions for employing long buckets,
with valves opening upward in their bottoms, for the purpose of drawing
water from these wells when the water will not flow over the surface;
also lift pumps, with a succession of buckets for the same purpose. But
as these suggestions possess little if any novelty, it cannot be
intended to claim them as parts of the patent.


ASPHALTUM. Native bitumen, so called from the lake Asphaltites.


ASSAY and ASSAYING. (_Coupellation_, Fr.; _Abtreiben auf der capelle_,
Germ.) This is the process by which the quality of gold and silver
bullion, coin, plate, or trinkets is ascertained with precision, or by
which the quantity of either or both these precious metals is determined
in any given alloy. It is, therefore, a case of chemical analysis, in
which peculiar methods are employed to attain the object in view with
accuracy and dispatch. Assaying has been also extended of late years, to
determine the quantity of palladium and platina in certain bullion and
gold dust brought from Brazil.

The art of assaying gold and silver _by the cupel_, is founded upon the
feeble affinity which these metals have for oxygen, in comparison with
copper, tin, and the other cheaper metals; and on the tendency which the
latter metals have to oxidize rapidly in contact with lead at a high
temperature, and sink with it into any porous earthy vessel in a thin
glassy or vitriform state. The porous vessel may be made either of
wood-ashes, freed from their soluble matter by washing with water; or,
preferably, of burned bones reduced to a fine powder.

The lead added to the silver or gold to be assayed, serves chiefly to
dissolve the oxidized copper, whence it appears that the quantity of
lead requisite for silver assays, ought to be directly proportional to
the quantity which the silver and copper would separately require. It
has been found by experiment, that 16 parts of lead are quite sufficient
to pass 1 of copper through the cupel; and that 3/10 of lead presents
the most suitable proportion for passing one of silver. From these
principles, however, if we should always regard the dose of lead to be
employed for any alloy as being equal to (16 x C) + (3/30 x S) we should
certainly commit an error. The phenomena of cupellation is of a more
complex nature. Long practice and delicate trials alone can guide to the
proper quantity of lead to be employed for every various state of the
alloy. The following Table contains the results of M. D'Arcet's
elaborate experiments upon this subject:--

  +---------------+--------+-------------+
  |     Alloy.    |Lead for|Ratio of the |
  +-------+-------+  1 of  |Copper to the|
  |Silver.|Copper.| Alloy. |    Lead.    |
  +-------+-------+--------+-------------+
  | 1000  |    0  |    3/10|   0         |
  |  950  |   50  |    3   |   1 : 60    |
  |  900  |  100  |    7   |   1 : 70    |
  |  800  |  200  |   10   |   1 : 50    |
  |  700  |  300  |   12   |   1 : 40    |
  |  600  |  400  |   14   |   1 : 35    |
  |  500  |  500  |16 or 17|   1 : 32    |
  |  400  |  600  |16 -- 17|   1 : 26.7  |
  |  300  |  700  |16 -- 17|   1 : 22.9  |
  |  200  |  800  |16 -- 17|   1 : 20    |
  |  100  |  900  |16 -- 17|   1 : 17.8  |
  |    0  | 1000  |16 -- 17|   1 : 16    |
  +-------+-------+--------+-------------+

Bismuth may be used as a substitute for lead in cupellation; two parts
of it being nearly equivalent to three of lead. But its higher prices
will prevent its general introduction among assay masters.

We begin this assay process by weighing, in a delicate balance, a
certain weight of the metallic alloy; a gramme (= 15.444 gr.) is usually
taken in France, and 12 grains in this country. This weight is wrapped
up in a slip of lead foil or paper, should it consist of several
fragments. This small parcel, thus enveloped, is then laid in a watch
glass or a capsule of copper, and there is added to it the proportion of
lead suited to the quality of alloy to be assayed; there being less
lead, the finer the silver is presumed to be. Those who are much in the
habit of cupellation can make good guesses in this way; though it is
still guess work, and often leads to considerable error, for if too much
lead be used for the proportion of baser metal present, a portion of the
silver is wasted; but if too little, then the whole of the copper, &c.
is not carried off, and the button of fine silver remains more or less
impure. The most expert and experienced assayer by the cupel, produces
merely a series of approximate conjectural results, which fall short of
chemical demonstration and certainty in every instance. The lead must
be, in all cases, entirely free from silver, being such as has been
revived from pure litharge; otherwise errors of the most serious kind
would be occasioned in the assays.

The best cupels weigh 12-1/2 grammes, or 193 grains. The cupels allow
the fused oxides to flow through them as through a fine sieve, but are
impermeable to the particles of metals; and thus the former pass readily
down into their substance while the latter remain upon their surface; a
phenomenon owing to the circumstance of the glassy oxides moistening, as
it were, the bone-ash powder, whereas the metals can contract no
adherence with it. Hence also the liquid metals preserve a hemispherical
shape in the cupels, as quicksilver does in a cup of glass, while the
fused oxide spreads over, and penetrates their substance, like water. A
cupel may be regarded, in some measure, as a filter permeable only to
certain liquids.

If we put into a cupel, therefore, two metals, of which the one is
unalterable in the air, the other susceptible of oxidizement, and of
producing a very fusible oxide, it is obvious that, by exposing both to
a proper degree of heat, we shall succeed in separating them. We should
also succeed, though the oxide were infusible, by placing it in contact
with another one, which may render it fusible. In both cases, however,
the metal from which we wish to part the oxides must not be volatile; it
should also melt, and form a button at the heat of cupellation; for
otherwise it would continue disseminated, attached to the portion of
oxide spread over the cupel, and incapable of being collected.

The furnace and implements used for assaying in the Royal Mint and the
Goldsmiths' Hall, in the city of London, are the following:--

[Illustration: 58 59]

A A A A, _fig._ 58., is a front elevation of an assay furnace; _a a_, a
view of one of the two iron rollers on which the furnace rests, and by
means of which it is moved forward or backward; _b_, the ash-pit; _c c_
are the ash-pit dampers, which are moved in a horizontal direction
towards each other for regulating the draught of the furnace; _d_, the
door, or opening, by which the cupels and assays are introduced into the
muffle; _e_, a moveable funnel or chimney by which the draught of the
furnace is increased. B B B B, _fig._ 59., is a perpendicular section
of _fig._ 58.; _a a_, end view of the rollers; _b_ the ash-pit; _c_ one
of the ash-pit dampers; _d_ the grate, over which is the plate upon
which the muffle rests, and which is covered with loam nearly one inch
thick; _f_ the muffle in section representing the situation of the
cupels; _g_ the mouth-plate, and upon it are laid pieces of charcoal,
which during the process are ignited, and heat the air that is allowed
to pass over the cupels, as will be more fully explained in the sequel;
_h_ the interior of the furnace, exhibiting the fuel.

The total height of the furnace is 2 feet 6-1/2 inches; from the bottom
to the grate, 6 inches; the grate, muffle, plate, and bed of loam, with
which it is covered, 3 inches; from the upper surface of the grate to
the commencement of the funnel _e_, _fig._ 58., 21-1/2 inches; the
funnel _e_, 6 inches. The square of the furnace which receives the
muffle and fuel is 11-3/4 inches by 15 inches. The external sides of the
furnace are made of plates of wrought iron, and are lined with a 2-inch
fire-brick.

[Illustration: 60]

C C C C, _fig._ 60., is a horizontal section of the furnace over the
grate, showing the width of the mouth-piece, or plate of wrought iron,
which is 6 inches, and the opening which receives the muffle-plate.

[Illustration: 61]

_Fig._ 61. represents the muffle or pot, which is 12 inches long, 6
inches broad inside; in the clear 6-3/4: in height 4-1/2 inside measure,
and nearly 5-1/2 in the clear.

[Illustration: 62]

_Fig._ 62., the muffle-plate, which is of the same size as the bottom of
the muffle.

[Illustration: 63]

_Fig._ 63. is a representation of the sliding-door of the mouth-plate,
as shewn at _d_, in _fig._ 58.

[Illustration: 64]

_Fig._ 64., a front view of the mouth-plate or piece, _d_, _fig._ 58.

[Illustration: 65]

_Fig._ 65., a representation of the mode of making, or shutting up with
pieces of charcoal, the mouth of the furnace.

_Fig._ 66., the teaser for cleaning the grate.

[Illustration: 66 67 68]

_Fig._ 67., a larger teaser, which is introduced at the top of the
furnace, for keeping a complete supply of charcoal around the muffle.

_Fig._ 68., the tongs used for charging the assays into the cups.

[Illustration: 69]

_Fig._ 69. represents a board of wood used as a register, and is divided
into 45 equal compartments, upon which the assays are placed previously
to their being introduced into the furnace. When the operation is
performed, the cupels are placed in the furnace in situations
corresponding to these assays on the board. By these means all confusion
is avoided, and without this regularity it would be impossible to
preserve the accuracy which the delicate operations of the assayer
require.

[Illustration: 70 71 72]

I shall now proceed to a description of a small assay furnace, invented
by Messrs. Anfrye and d'Arcet, of Paris. They term it, _Le Petit
Fourneau a Coupelle_. _Fig._ 70. represents this furnace, and it is
composed of a chimney or pipe of wrought iron _a_, and of the furnace B.
It is 17-1/2 inches high, and 7-1/4 inches wide. The furnace is formed
of three pieces; of a dome A; the body of the furnace B; and the ash-pit
C, which is used as the base of the furnace, _fig._ 70. and 71. The
principal piece, or body of the furnace, B, has the form of a hollow
tower, or of a hollow cylinder, flattened equally at the two opposite
sides parallel to the axis, in such a manner that the horizontal section
is elliptical. The foot which supports it is a hollow truncated cone,
flattened in like manner upon the two opposite sides, and having
consequently for its basis two ellipses of different diameters; the
smallest ought to be equal to that of the furnace, so that the bottom of
the latter may exactly fit it. The dome, which forms an arch above the
furnace, has also its base elliptical, whilst that of the superior
orifice by which the smoke goes out preserves the cylindrical form. The
tube of wrought iron is 18 inches long and 2-1/2 inches diameter, having
one of its ends a little enlarged, and slightly conical, that it may be
exactly fitted or jointed upon the upper part of the furnace dome _d_,
_fig._ 70. At the union of the conical and cylindrical parts of the
tube, there is placed a small gallery of iron, _e_, _fig._ 70, 71. See
also a plan of it, _fig._ 72. This gallery is both ingenious and useful.
Upon it are placed the cupels, which are thus annealed during the
ordinary work of the furnace, that they may be introduced into the
muffle, when it is brought into its proper degree of heat. A little
above this gallery is a door _f_, by which, if thought proper, the
charcoal could be introduced into the furnace; above that there is
placed at _g_ a throttle valve, which is used for regulating the draught
of the furnace at pleasure. Messrs. Anfrye and d'Arcet say, that, to
give the furnace the necessary degree of heat so as to work the assays
of gold, the tube must be about 18 inches above the gallery, for
annealing or heating the cupels. The circular opening _h_, in the dome,
_fig._ 70., and as seen in the section, _fig._ 71., is used to introduce
the charcoal into the furnace: it is also used to inspect the interior
of the furnace, and to arrange the charcoal round the muffle. This
opening is kept shut during the working of the furnace, with the
mouth-piece, of which the face is seen at _n_, _fig._ 71.

The section of the furnace, _fig._ 71., presents several openings, the
principal of which is that of the muffle; it is placed at _i_; it is
shut with the semicircular door _m_, _fig._ 70., and seen in the section
_m_, _fig._ 71. In front of this opening, is the table or shelf, upon
which the door of the muffle is made to advance or recede; the letter
_q_, _fig._ 71., shows the face, side, and cross section of the shelf,
which makes part of the furnace. Immediately under the shelf, is a
horizontal slit, _l_, which is pierced at the level of the upper part of
the grate, and used for the introduction of a slender rod of iron, that
the grate may be easily kept clean. This opening is shut at pleasure, by
the wedge represented at _k_, _fig._ 70. and 71.

Upon the back of the furnace is a horizontal slit _p_, _fig._ 71, which
supports the fire-brick, _s_, and upon which the end of the muffle, if
necessary, may rest; _u_, _fig._ 71., is the opening in the furnace
where the muffle is placed.

[Illustration: 73]

The plan of the grate of the furnace is an ellipse: _fig._ 73. is a
horizontal view of it. The dimensions of that ellipsis determine the
general form of the furnace, and thickness of the grate. To give
strength and solidity to the grate, it is encircled by a bar or hoop of
iron. There is a groove in which the hoop of iron is fixed. The holes of
the grate are truncated cones, having the greater base below, that the
ashes may more easily fall into the ash-pit. The letter _v_, _fig._ 71.,
shows the form of these holes. The grate is supported by a small bank or
shelf, making part of the furnace, as seen at _a_, _fig._ 71.

The ash-pit, C, has an opening _y_ in front, _fig._ 71.; and is shut
when necessary by the mouth-piece _r_, _fig._ 70. and 71.

To give strength and solidity to the furnace, it is bound with hoops of
iron, at _b_, _b_, _b_, _b_, _fig._ 70.

[Illustration: 74 75 76]

_Figs._ 74. 75. 76. are views of the muffle.

_Fig._ 77. is a view of a crucible for annealing gold.

[Illustration: 77 78 79 80]

_Figs._ 78. 79. 80. are cupels of various sizes, to be used in the
furnace. They are the same as those used by assayers in their ordinary
furnaces.

[Illustration: 81 82]

_Figs._ 81. and 82. are views of the hand-shovels, used for filling the
furnace with charcoal; they should be made of such size and form as to
fit the opening _h_, in _figs._ 70. and 71.

The smaller pincers or tongs, by which the assays are charged into the
cupels, and by which the latter are withdrawn from the furnace, as well
as the teaser for cleaning the grate of the furnace, are similar to
those used in the British Mint.

In the furnace of the Mint above described, the number of assays that
can be made at one time, is 45. The same number of cupels are put into
the muffle. The furnace is then filled with charcoal to the top, and
upon this are laid a few pieces already ignited. In the course of three
hours, a little more or less, according to circumstances, the whole is
ignited; during which period, the muffle, which is made of fire-clay, is
gradually heated to redness, and is prevented from cracking; which a
less regular or more sudden increase of temperature would not fail to
do: the cupels, also, become properly annealed. All moisture being
dispelled, they are in a fit state to receive the piece of silver or
gold to be assayed.

The greater care that is exercised in this operation, the less liable is
the assayer to accidents from the breaking of the muffle; which it is
both expensive and troublesome to fit properly into the furnace.

The cupels used in the assay process, are made of the ashes of burnt
bones (phosphate of lime). In the Royal Mint, the cores of ox-horn are
selected for this purpose; and the ashes produced are about four times
the expense of the bone-ash, used in the process of cupellation upon the
large scale. So much depends upon the accuracy of an assay of gold or
silver, where a mass of 15lbs. troy in the first, and 60lbs. troy in the
second instance, is determined by the analysis of a portion not
exceeding 20 troy grains, that every precaution which the longest
experience has suggested, is used to obtain an accurate result. Hence
the attention paid to the selection of the most proper materials for
making the cupels.

The cupels are formed in a circular mould made of cast steel, very
nicely turned, by which means they are easily freed from the mould when
struck. The bone-ash is used moistened with a quantity of water,
sufficient to make the particles adhere firmly together. The circular
mould is filled, and pressed level with its surface; after which, a
pestle or rammer, having its end nicely turned, of a globular or convex
shape, and of a size equal to the degree of concavity wished to be made
in the cupel for the reception of the assay, is placed upon the ashes in
the mould, and struck with a hammer until the cupel is properly formed.
These cupels are allowed to dry in the air for some time before they are
used. If the weather is fine, a fortnight will be sufficient.

An assay may prove defective for several reasons. Sometimes the button
or bead sends forth crystalline vegetations on its surface with such
force, as to make one suppose a portion of the silver may be thrown out
of the cupel. When the surface of the bead is dull and flat, the assay
is considered to have been too hot, and it indicates a loss of silver in
fumes. When the tint of the bead is not uniform, when its inferior
surface is bubbly, when yellow scales of oxide of lead remain on the
bottom of the cupel, and the bead adheres strongly to it, by these signs
it is judged that the assay has been too cold, and that the silver
retains some lead.

Lastly, the assay is thought to be good if the bead is of a round form,
if its upper surface is brilliant, if its lower surface is granular and
of a dead white, and if it separates readily from the cupel.

After the lead is put into the cupel, it gets immediately covered with a
coat of oxide, which resists the admission of the silver to be assayed
into the melted metal; so that the alloy cannot form. When a bit of
silver is laid on a lead bath in this predicament, we see it swim about
for a long time without dissolving. In order to avoid this result, the
silver is wrapped up in a bit of paper; and the carburetted hydrogen
generated by its combustion, reduces the film of the lead oxide, gives
the bath immediately a bright metallic lustre, and enables the two
metals readily to combine.

As the heat rises, the oxide of lead flows round about over the surface,
till it is absorbed by the cupel. When the lead is wasted to a certain
degree, a very thin film of it only remains on the silver, which causes
the iridescent appearance, like the colours of soap-bubbles; a
phenomenon, called by the old chemists, fulguration.

When the cupel cools in the progress of the assay, the oxygenation of
the lead ceases; and, instead of a very liquid vitreous oxide, an
imperfectly melted oxide is formed, which the cupel cannot absorb. To
correct a cold assay, the temperature of the furnace ought to be raised,
and pieces of paper ought to be put into the cupel, till the oxide of
lead which adheres to it, be reduced. On keeping up the heat, the assay
will resume its ordinary train.

Pure silver almost always vegetates. Some traces of copper destroy this
property, which is obviously due to the oxygen which the silver can
absorb while it is in fusion, and which is disengaged the moment it
solidifies. An excess of lead, by removing all the copper at an early
stage, tends to cause the vegetation.

The brightening is caused by the heat evolved, when the button passes
from the liquid to the solid state. Many other substances present the
same phenomenon.

In the above operation it is necessary to employ lead which is very
pure, or at least free from silver. That kind is called _poor lead_.

It has been observed at all times, that the oxide of lead carries off
with it, into the cupel, a little silver in the state of an oxide. This
effect becomes less, or even disappears, when there is some copper
remaining; and the more copper, the less chance there is of any silver
being lost. The loss of silver increases, on the other hand, with the
dose of lead. Hence the reason why it is so important to proportion the
lead with a precision which, at first sight, would appear to be
superfluous. Hence, also, the reason of the attempts which have, of late
years, been made to change the whole system of silver assays, and to
have recourse to a method exempt from the above causes of error.

M. d'Arcet, charged by the Commission of the Mint in Paris, to examine
into the justice of the reclamations made by the French silversmiths
against the public assays, ascertained that they were well founded; and
that the results of cupellation gave for the alloys between 897 and 903
thousandths (the limits of their standard coin) an inferior standard, by
from 4 to 5 thousandth parts, from the standard or title which should
result from the absolute or actual alloy.

The mode of assay shows, in fact, that an ingot, experimentally composed
of 900 thousandths of fine silver, and 100 thousandths of copper,
appears, by cupellation, to be only, at the utmost, 896 or 897
thousandths; whereas fine silver, of 1000 thousandths, comes out nearly
of its real standard. Consequently a director of the Mint, who should
compound his alloy with fine silver, would be obliged to employ 903 or
904 thousandths, in order that, by the assay in the laboratory of the
Mint, it should appear to have the standard of 900 thousandths. These 3
or 4 thousandths would be lost to him, since they would be disguised by
the mode of assay, the definitive criterion of the quantity of silver,
of which the government keeps count from the coiner of the money.

From experiments subsequently made by M. d'Arcet, it appears that silver
assays always suffer a loss of the precious metal, which varies,
however, with the standard of the alloy. It is 1 thousandth for fine
silver,

  4.3 thousandths for silver of 900 thousandths,
  4.9     --      for   --   of 800     --
  4.2     --      for   --   of 500     --

and diminishes thereafter, progressively, till the alloy contains only
100 thousandths of silver, at which point the loss is only 0.4.

Assays requested by the Commission of the Paris Mint, from the assayers
of the principal Royal Mints in Europe, to which the same alloys,
synthetically compounded, were sent, afforded the results inscribed in
the following table.

  +----------------------+----------+-----------------------------+
  |                      |          |   Standards found for the   |
  |                      |  Cities  |    Mathematical Alloys.     |
  |Names of the Assayers.|where they+---------+---------+---------+
  |                      | reside.  |950 mill.|900 mill.|800 mill.|
  +----------------------+----------+---------+---------+---------+
  |F. de Castenhole, Mint|          |         |         |         |
  |Assayer               |Vienna    |946.20   |898.40   |795.10   |
  |A. R. Vervaez, Ditto  |Madrid    |944.40   |893.70   |789.20   |
  |D. M. Cabrera, Assayer|          |         |         |         |
  |in Spain              |Ditto     |944.40   |893.70   |788.60   |
  |Assayer               |Amsterdam |947.00   |895.00   |795.00   |
  |Mr. Bingley, Assay    |          |         |         |         |
  |Master                |London    |946.25   |896.25   |794.25   |
  |Mr. Johnson, Assayer  |Ditto     |933.33   |883.50   |783.33   |
  |Inspector of the Mint |Utrecht   |945.00   |896.50   |799.00   |
  |Assayer of the Mint   |Naples    |945.00   |891.00   |787.00   |
  |Assayer of Trade      |Ditto     |945.00   |891.00   |787.00   |
  |Assayer of the Mint   |Hamburgh  |946.13/72|897.41/72|798.44/72|
  |Ditto                 |Altona    |942.1/4  |894.00   |790      |
  +----------------------+----------+---------+---------+---------+

These results, as well as those in still greater numbers, obtained from
the ablest Parisian assayers, upon identical alloys of silver and
copper, prove that the mode of assay applied to them brings out the
standard too low; and further, that the quantity of silver masked or
disguised, is not uniform for these different eminent assay masters. An
alloy, for example, at the standard of 900 thousandths is judged at

                                           M.
  the Mint of Paris to have a standard of 895.6
  At that of Vienna           --          898.4
     --      Madrid           --          893.7
     --      Naples           --          891.0

The fact thus so clearly made out of a loss in the standard of silver
bullion and coin, merits the most serious attention; and it will appear
astonishing, perhaps, that a thing recurring every day, should have
remained for so long a time in the dark. In reality, however, the fact
is not new; as the very numerous and well-made experiments of Tillet
from 1760 to 1763, which are related in the memoirs of the Academy of
Sciences, show, in the silver assays, a loss still greater than that
which was experienced lately in the laboratory of the Commission of the
French Mint. But he thought that, as the error was common to the nations
in general, it was not worth while or prudent to introduce any
innovation.

A mode of assaying, to give, with certainty, the standard of silver
bullion, should be entirely independent of the variable circumstances of
temperature, and the unknown proportions of copper, so difficult to
regulate by the mere judgment of the senses. The process by the humid
way, recommended by me to the Royal Mint in 1829, and exhibited as to
its principles before the Right Honourable John Herries, then Master, in
1830, has all the precision and certainty we could wish. It is founded
on the well-known property which silver has, when dissolved in nitric
acid, to be precipitated in a chloride of silver quite insoluble, by a
solution of sea salt, or by muriatic acid; but, instead of determining
the weight of the chloride of silver, which would be somewhat uncertain
and rather tedious, on account of the difficulty of drying it, we take
the quantity of the solution of sea salt which has been necessary for
the precipitation of the silver. To put the process in execution, a
liquor is prepared, composed of water and sea salt in such proportions
that 1000 measures of this liquor may precipitate, completely, 12 grains
of silver, perfectly pure, or of the standard 1000, previously dissolved
in nitric acid. The liquor thus prepared, gives, immediately, the true
standard of any alloy whatever, of silver and copper, by the weight of
it which may be necessary to precipitate 12 grains of this alloy. If,
for example 905 measures have been required to precipitate the 12 grains
of alloy, its standard would be 905 thousandths.

The process by the humid way is, so to speak, independent of the
operator. The manipulations are so easy; and the term of the operation
is very distinctly announced by the absence of any sensible nebulosities
on the affusion of sea salt into the silver solution, while there
remains in it 1/2 thousandth of metal. The process is not tedious, and
in experienced hands it may rival the cupel in rapidity; it has the
advantage over the cupel of being more within the reach of ordinary
operators, and of not requiring a long apprenticeship. It is
particularly useful to such assayers as have only a few assays to make
daily, as it will cost them very little time and expense.

By agitating briskly during two minutes, or thereby, the liquid rendered
milky by the precipitation of the chloride of silver, it may be
sufficiently clarified to enable us to appreciate, after a few moments
of repose, the disturbance that can be produced in it by the addition of
1000 of a grain of silver. Filtration is more efficacious than
agitation, especially when it is employed afterwards; it may be
sometimes used; but agitation, which is much more prompt, is generally
sufficient. The presence of lead and copper, or any other metal, except
mercury, has no perceptible influence on the quantity of sea salt
necessary to precipitate the silver; that is to say, the same quantity
of silver, pure or alloyed, requires for its precipitation a constant
quantity of the solution of sea salt.

Supposing that we operate upon a gramme of pure silver, the solution of
sea salt ought to be such that 100 centimetres cube may precipitate
exactly the whole silver. The standard of an alloy is given by the
number of thousandths of solution of sea salt necessary to precipitate
the silver contained in a gramme of the alloy.

When any mercury is accidentally present, which is, however, a rare
occurrence, it is made obvious by the precipitated chloride remaining
white when exposed to daylight, whereas when there is no mercury
present, it becomes speedily first grey and then purple. Silver so
contaminated must be strongly ignited in fusion before being assayed,
and its loss of weight noted. In this case, a cupel assay must be had
recourse to.

_Preparation of the Normal Solution of Sea Salt, when it is measured by
Weight._--Supposing the sea salt pure as well as the water, we have only
to take these two bodies in the proportion of 0.5427 k. of salt to
99.4573 k. of water, to have 100 k. of solution, of which 100 grammes
will precipitate exactly one gramme of silver. But instead of pure salt,
which is to be procured with difficulty, and which besides may be
altered readily by absorbing the humidity of the air, a concentrated
solution of the sea salt of commerce is to be preferred, of which a
large quantity may be prepared at a time, to be kept in reserve for use,
as it is wanted. _Instruction de Gay Lussac._

_Preparation of the Normal Solution of Sea Salt, when measured by
Volume._--The measure by weight has the advantage of being independent
of temperature, of having the same degree of precision as the balance,
and of standing in need of no correction. The measure by volume has not
all these advantages; but, by giving it sufficient precision, it is more
rapid, and is quite sufficient for the numerous daily assays of the
mint. This normal solution is so made, that a volume equal to that of
100 grammes of water, or 100 centimetres cube, at a determinate
temperature, may precipitate exactly one gramme of silver. The solution
may be kept at a constant temperature, and in this case the assay stands
in want of no correction; or if its temperature be variable, the assay
must be corrected according to its influence. These two circumstances
make no change in the principle of the process, but they are
sufficiently important to occasion some modifications in the apparatus.
Experience has decided the preference in favour of applying a correction
to a variable temperature.

We readily obtain a volume of 100 cubic centimetres by means of a
_pipette_, _fig._ 83., so gauged that when filled with water up to the
mark _a_, _b_, and well dried at its point, it will run out, at a
continuous efflux, 100 grammes of water at the temperature of 15 C. (59
Fah.). We say purposely at one efflux, because after the cessation of
the jet, the pipette may still furnish two or three drops of liquid,
which must not be counted or reckoned upon. The weight of the volume of
the normal solution, taken in this manner with suitable precautions,
will be uniform from one extreme to another, upon two centimetres and a
half, at most, or to a quarter of a thousandth, and the difference from
the mean will be obviously twice less, or one half. Let us indicate the
most simple manner of taking a measure of the normal solution of sea
salt.

[Illustration: 83 84]

After having immersed the beak _c_ of the pipette in the solution, we
apply suction by the mouth, to the upper orifice, and thereby raise the
liquid to _d_ above the circular line _a b_. We next apply neatly the
forefinger of one hand to this orifice, remove the pipette from the
liquid, and seize it as represented in _fig._ 84. The mark _a b_ being
placed at the level of the eye, we make the surface of the solution
become exactly a tangent to the plane _a b_. At the instant it becomes a
tangent, we leave the beak _c_ of the pipette open, by taking away the
finger that had been applied to it, and without changing any thing else
in the position of the hands, we empty it into the bottle which should
receive the solution, taking care to remove it whenever the efflux has
run out.

If after filling the pipette by suction, any one should find a
difficulty in applying the forefinger fast enough to the upper orifice,
without letting the liquid run down below the mark _a b_, he should
remove the pipette from the solution with its top still closed with his
tongue, then apply the middle finger of one of his hands to the lower
orifice; after which he may withdraw his tongue, and apply the
forefinger of the other hand to the orifice previously wiped. This mode
of obtaining a measure of normal solution of sea salt is very simple,
and requires no complex apparatus; but we shall indicate another
manipulation still easier, and also more exact.

In this new process the pipette is filled from the top like a bottle,
instead of being filled by suction, and it is moreover fixed. _Fig._ 85.
represents the apparatus. D and D' are two sockets separated by a stop
cock R. The upper one, tapped interiorly, receives, by means of a cork
stopper L, the tube T, which admits the solution of sea salt. The lower
socket is cemented on to the _pipette_; it bears a small air-cock R',
and a screw plug V, which regulates a minute opening intended to let the
air enter very slowly into the pipette. Below the stop-cock R', a silver
tube N, of narrow diameter, soldered to the socket, leads the solution
into the _pipette_, by allowing the air, which it displaces, to escape
by the stop-cock R'. The screw plug, with the milled head V', replaces
the ordinary screw by which the key of the stop-cock may be made to
press, with more or less force, upon its conical seat.

[Illustration: 85 86]

_Fig._ 86. represents, in a side view, the apparatus just described. We
here remark an air-cock R, and an opening _m_. At the extremity Q of the
same figure, the conical pipe T enters, with friction. It is by this
pipe that the air is sucked into the pipette, when it is to be filled
from its beak.

[Illustration: 87]

The _pipette_ is supported by two horizontal arms H K (_fig._ 87.)
moveable about a common axis A A, and capable of being drawn out or
shortened by the aid of two longitudinal slits. They are fixed steadily
by two screw nuts _e e'_, and their distance may be varied by means of
round bits of wood or cork interposed, or even by opposite screw nuts _o
o'_. The upper arm H is pierced with a hole, in which is fixed, by the
pressure of a wooden screw _v_, the socket of the _pipette_. The
corresponding hole of the lower arm is larger; and the beak of the
_pipette_ is supported in it by a cork stopper L. The apparatus is fixed
by its tail-piece P, by means of a screw to the corner of a wall, or any
other prop.

The manner of filling the pipette is very simple. We begin by applying
the fore-finger of the left hand to the lower aperture _c_; we then open
the two stop-cocks R and R'. Whenever the liquor approaches the neck of
the _pipette_, we must temper its influx, and when it has arrived at
some millimetres above the mark _a b_, we close the two stop-cocks, and
remove our forefinger. We have now nothing more to do than to regulate
the _pipette_; for which purpose the liquid must touch the line _a b_,
and must simply adhere externally to the beak of the _pipette_.

[Illustration: 88]

This last circumstance is easily adjusted. After taking away the finger
which closed the aperture _c_ of the _pipette_, we apply to this orifice
a moist sponge _m_, _fig._ 88., wrapped up in a linen rag, to absorb the
superfluous liquor as it drops out. This sponge is called the
handkerchief (_mouchoir_), by M. Gay Lussac. The _pipette_ is said to be
wiped when there is no liquor adhering to its point exteriorly.

For the convenience of operating, the handkerchief is fixed by friction
in a tube of tin plate, terminated by a cup, open at bottom to let the
droppings flow off into the cistern C, to which the tube is soldered. It
may be easily removed for the purpose of washing it; and, if necessary,
a little wedge of wood, _o_, can raise it towards the _pipette_.

To complete the adjustment of the _pipette_, the liquid must be made
merely to descend to the mark _a_, _b_. With this view, and whilst the
handkerchief is applied to the beak of the _pipette_, the air must be
allowed to enter very slowly by unscrewing the plug V, _fig._ 85.; and
at the moment of the contact the handkerchief must be removed, and the
bottle F, destined to receive the solution, must be placed below the
orifice of the _pipette_, _fig._ 88. As the motion must be made rapidly,
and without hesitation, the bottle is placed in a cylinder of tin-plate,
of a diameter somewhat greater, and forming one body with the cistern
and the handkerchief. The whole of this apparatus has for a basis a
plate of tinned iron, moveable between two wooden rulers R R, one of
which bears a groove, under which the edge of the plate slips. Its
traverses are fixed by two abutments _b b_, placed so that when it is
stopped by one of them, the beak of the _pipette_ corresponds to the
centre of the neck of the bottle, or is a tangent to the handkerchief.
This arrangement, very convenient for wiping the _pipette_ and emptying
it, gives the apparatus sufficient solidity, and allows of its being
taken away, and replaced without deranging any thing. It is obvious that
it is of advantage, when once the entry of the air into the _pipette_
has been regulated by the screw V, to leave it constantly open, because
the motion from the handkerchief to the bottle is performed with
sufficient rapidity to prevent a drop of the solution from collecting
and falling down.

[Illustration: 89]

_Temperature of the Solution._--After having described the manner of
measuring by volume the normal solution of the sea salt, we shall
indicate the most convenient means of taking the temperature. The
thermometer is placed in a tube of glass T, _fig._ 89., which the
solution traverses to arrive at the _pipette_. It is suspended in it by
a piece of cork, grooved on the four sides to afford passage to the
liquid. The scale is engraved upon the tube itself, and is repeated at
the opposite side, to fix the eye by the coincidence of this double
division at the level of the thermometric column. The tube is joined
below to another narrower one, through which it is attached by means of
a cork stopper B, in the socket of the stop-cock of the _pipette_. At
its upper part it is cemented into a brass socket, screw-tapped in the
inside, which is connected in its turn by a cock, with the extremity,
also tapped, of the tube above T, belonging to the reservoir of the
normal solution. The corks employed here as connecting links between the
parts of the apparatus, give them a certain flexibility, and allow of
their being dismounted and remounted in a very short time; but it is
indispensable to make them be traversed by a hollow tube of glass or
metal, which will hinder them from being crushed by the pressure they
are exposed to. If the precaution be taken to grease them with a little
suet and to fill their pores, they will suffer no leakage.

_Preservation of the Normal Solution of Sea Salt in metallic
Vessels._--M. Gay Lussac uses for this purpose a cylindrical vessel or
drum of copper, of a capacity of about 110 litres, having its inside
covered with a rosin and wax cement.

_Preparation of the Normal Solution of Sea Salt, measuring it by
Volume._--If the drum contains 110 litres, we should put only 105 into
it, in order that sufficient space may be left for agitating the liquor
without throwing it out. According to the principle that 100 centimetres
cube, or 1/10 of a litre of the solution should contain enough of sea
salt to precipitate a gramme of pure silver; and, admitting moreover,
13.516 for the prime equivalent of silver, and 7.335 for that of sea
salt, we shall find the quantity of pure salt that should be dissolved
in the 105 litres of water, and which corresponds to 105 x 10 = 1050
grammes of silver, to be by the following proportion:--

  13.516 : 7.335 [::] 1050 gramm. : x = 569.83 gr.

And as the solution of the sea salt of commerce, formerly mentioned,
contains approximately 250 grammes per kilogramme, we must take 2279.3
grammes of this solution to have 569.83 gram. of salt. The mixture being
perfectly made, the tubes and the _pipette_ must be several times washed
by running the solution through them, and putting it into the drum. The
standard of the solution must be determined after it has been well
agitated, supposing the temperature to remain uniform.

To arrive more conveniently at this result, we begin by preparing two
_decimes_ solutions; one of silver, and another of sea salt.

The decime solution of silver is obtained by dissolving 1 gramme of
silver in nitric acid, and diluting the solution with water till its
volume become a litre.

The decime solution of sea salt may be obtained by dissolving 0.543
grammes of pure sea salt in water, so that the solution shall occupy a
litre; but we shall prepare it even with the normal solution which we
wish to test, by mixing a measure of it with 9 measures of water; it
being understood that this solution is not rigorously equivalent to that
of silver, and that it will become so, only when the normal solution
employed for its preparation shall be finally of the true standard.
Lastly, we prepare beforehand several stoppered phials, in each of which
we dissolve 1 gramme of silver in 8 or 10 grammes of nitric acid. For
brevity's sake we shall call these tests.

Now to investigate the standard of the normal solution, we must transfer
a _pipette_ of it into one of these test phials; and we must agitate the
liquors briskly to clarify them. After some instants of repose, we must
pour in 2 thousandths of the _decime_ solution of sea salt, which, we
suppose, will produce a precipitate. The normal liquor is consequently
too feeble; and we should expect this, since the sea salt employed was
not perfectly pure. We agitate and add 2 fresh thousandths, which will
also produce a precipitate. We continue thus by successive additions of
2 thousandths, till the last produces no precipitation. Suppose that we
have added 16 thousandths: the last two should not be reckoned, as they
produced no precipitate; the preceding two were necessary, but only in
part; that is to say, the useful thousandths added are above 12 and
below 14, or otherwise they are on an average equal to 13.

Thus, in the condition of the normal solution, we require 1013 parts of
it to precipitate one gramme of silver, while we should require only
1000. We shall find the quantity of concentrated solution of sea salt
that we should add, by noting that the quantity of solution of sea salt,
at first employed, viz. 2279.3 grammes, produced a standard of only 987
thousandths = 1000 - 13; and by using the following proportion:

  987 : 2279.3 [::] 13 : x = 30.02 grammes.

This quantity of the strong solution of salt, mixed with the normal
solution in the drum, will correct its standard, and we shall now see by
how much.

After having washed the tubes and the _pipette_, with the new solution,
we must repeat the experiment upon a fresh gramme of silver. We shall
find, for example, in proceeding only by a thousandth at a time, that
the first causes a precipitate, but not the second. The standard of the
solution is still too weak, and is comprised between 1000 and 1001; that
is to say, it may be equal to 1000-1/2, but we must make a closer
approximation.

We pour into the test bottle 2 thousandths of the _decime_ solution of
silver, which will destroy, perceptibly, two thousandths of sea salt,
and the operation will have retrograded by two thousandths; that is to
say, it will be brought back to the point at which it was first of all.
If, after having cleared up the liquor, we add half a thousandth of the
decime solution, there will necessarily be a precipitate, as we knew
beforehand, but a second will cause no turbidity. The standard of the
normal liquor will be consequently comprehended between 1000 and
1000-1/2, or equal to 1000-1/4.

We should rest content with this standard, but if we wish to correct it,
we may remark that the two quantities of solution of salt added, viz.
2279.3 gr. + 30.02 gr. = 2309.32 gr. have produced only 999.75
thousandths, and that we must add a new quantity of it corresponding to
1/4 of a thousandth. We make, therefore, the proportion

  999.75 : 2309.32 [::] 0.25 : x.

But since the first term differs very little from 1000, we may content
ourselves to have x by taking the 0.25/1000 of 2309.32, and we shall
find 0.577 gr. for the quantity of solution of sea salt to be added to
the normal solution.

It is not convenient to take exactly so small a quantity of solution of
sea salt by the balance, but we shall succeed easily by the following
process. We weigh 50 grammes of this solution, and we dilute it with
water; so that it occupies exactly half a litre, or 500 centimetres
cube. A _pipette_ of this solution, one centimetre cube in volume, will
give a decigramme of the primitive solution, and as such a small
_pipette_ is divided into twenty drops, each drop, for example, will
represent 5 milligrammes of the solution. We should arrive at quantities
smaller still by diluting the solution with a proper quantity of water;
but greater precision would be entirely needless.

The testing of the normal liquor just described, is, in reality, less
tedious than might be supposed. It deserves also to be remarked, that
liquor has been prepared for more than 1000 assays; and that, in
preparing a fresh quantity, we shall obtain directly its true standard,
or nearly so, if we bear in mind the quantities of water and solution of
salt which had been employed.

_Correction of the Standard of the Normal Solution of Sea Salt, when the
Temperature changes._--We have supposed, in determining the standard of
the normal solution of sea salt, that the temperature remained uniform.
The assays made in such circumstances, have no need of correction; but
if the temperature should change, the same measure of the solution will
not contain the same quantity of sea salt. Supposing that we have tested
the solution of the salt at the temperature of 15 deg. C.; if, at the time
of making the experiment, the temperature is 18 deg. C., for example, the
solution will be too weak on account of its expansion, and the _pipette_
will contain less of it by weight; if, on the contrary, the temperature
has fallen to 12 deg., the solution will be thereby concentrated and will
prove too strong. It is therefore proper to determine the correction
necessary to be made, for any variation of temperature.

To ascertain this point, the temperature of the solution of sea salt was
made successively to be 0 deg., 5 deg., 10 deg., 15 deg., 20 deg., 25 deg., and 30 deg. C.; and
three _pipettes_ of the solution were weighed exactly at each of these
temperatures. The third of these weighings gave the mean weight of a
_pipette_. The corresponding weights of a _pipette_ of the solution,
were afterwards graphically interpolated from degree to degree. These
weights form the second column of the following table, intitled, _Table
of Correction for the Variations in the Temperature of the Normal
Solution of the Sea Salt_. They enable us to correct any temperature
between 0 and 30 degrees centigrade (32 deg. and 86 deg. Fahr.) when the
solution of sea salt has been prepared in the same limits.

Let us suppose, for example, that the solution has been made standard at
15 deg., and that at the time of using it, the temperature has become 18 deg.
We see by the second column of the table, that the weight of a measure
of the solution is 100.099 gr. at 15 deg., and 100.065 at 18 deg.; the
difference 0.034 gr., is the quantity of solution less which has been
really taken; and of course we must add it to the normal measure, in
order to make it equal to one thousand _milliemes_. If the temperature
of the solution had fallen to 10 degrees, the difference of the weight
of a measure from 10 to 15 degrees would be 0.019 gr. which we must on
the contrary deduct from the measure, since it had been taken too large.
These differences of weight of a measure of solution at 15 deg., from that
of a measure at any other temperature, form the column 15 deg. of the
table, where they are expressed in thousandths; they are inscribed on
the same horizontal lines as the temperatures to which each of them
relates with the sign + _plus_, when they must be added, and with the
sign - _minus_, when they must be subtracted. The columns 5 deg., 10 deg., 20 deg.,
25 deg., 35 deg., have been calculated in the same manner for the cases in which
the normal solution may have been graduated to each of these
temperatures. Thus, to calculate the column 10, the number 100.118 has
been taken of the column of weights for a term of departure, and its
difference from all the numbers of the same column has been sought.

Table of Correction for the Variations in the Temperature of the Normal
Solution of the Sea Salt.

  +-------+-------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
  |Temper-|Weight.|  5 deg. | 10 deg. | 15 deg. | 20 deg. | 25 deg. | 30 deg. |
  |ature. |       |     |     |     |     |     |     |
  +-------+-------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
  |       | gram. |mill.|mill.|mill.|mill.|mill.|mill.|
  |   4   |100,109|  0.0|- 0.1|+ 0.1|+ 0.7|+ 1.7|+ 2.7|
  |   5   |100,113|  0.0|- 0.1|+ 0.1|+ 0.7|+ 1.7|+ 2.8|
  |   6   |100,115|  0.0|  0.0|+ 0.2|+ 0.8|+ 1.7|+ 2.8|
  |   7   |110,118|+ 0.1|  0.0|+ 0.2|+ 0.8|+ 1.7|+ 2.8|
  |   8   |100,120|+ 0.1|  0.0|+ 0.2|+ 0.8|+ 1.8|+ 2.8|
  |   9   |100,120|+ 0.1|  0.0|+ 0.2|+ 0.8|+ 1.8|+ 2.8|
  |  10   |100,118|+ 0.1|  0.0|+ 0.2|+ 0.8|+ 1.7|+ 2.8|
  |  11   |100,116|  0.0|  0.0|+ 0.2|+ 0.8|+ 1.7|+ 2.8|
  |  12   |100,114|  0.0|  0.0|+ 0.2|+ 0.8|+ 1.7|+ 2.8|
  |  13   |100,110|  0.0|- 0.1|+ 0.1|+ 0.7|+ 1.7|+ 2.7|
  |  14   |100,106|- 0.1|- 0.1|+ 0.1|+ 0.7|+ 1.6|+ 2.7|
  |  15   |100,099|- 0.1|- 0.2|- 0.0|+ 0.6|+ 1.6|+ 2.6|
  |  16   |100,090|- 0.2|- 0.3|- 0.1|+ 0.5|+ 1.5|+ 2.5|
  |  17   |100,078|- 0.4|- 0.4|- 0.2|+ 0.4|+ 1.3|+ 2.4|
  |  18   |100,065|- 0.5|- 0.5|- 0.3|+ 0.3|+ 1.2|+ 2.3|
  |  19   |100,053|- 0.6|- 0.7|- 0.5|+ 0.1|+ 1.1|+ 2.2|
  |  20   |100,039|- 0.7|- 0.8|- 0.6|  0.0|+ 1.0|+ 2.0|
  |  21   |100,021|- 0.9|- 1.0|- 0.8|- 0.2|+ 0.8|+ 1.9|
  |  22   |100,001|- 1.1|- 1.2|- 1.0|- 0.4|+ 0.6|+ 1.7|
  |  23   | 99,983|- 1.3|- 1.4|- 1.2|- 0.6|+ 0.4|+ 1.5|
  |  24   | 99,964|- 1.5|- 1.5|- 1.4|- 0.8|+ 0.2|+ 1.3|
  |  25   | 99,944|- 1.7|- 1.7|- 1.6|- 1.0|  0.0|+ 1.1|
  |  26   | 99,924|- 1.9|- 1.9|- 1.8|- 1.2|- 0.2|+ 0.9|
  |  27   | 99,902|- 2.1|- 2.2|- 2.0|- 1.4|- 0.4|+ 0.7|
  |  28   | 99,879|- 2.3|- 2.4|- 2.2|- 1.6|- 0.7|+ 0.4|
  |  29   | 99,858|- 2.6|- 2.6|- 2.4|- 1.8|- 0.9|+ 0.2|
  |  30   | 99,836|- 2.8|- 2.8|- 2.6|- 2.0|- 1.1|  0.0|
  +-------+-------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+

Several expedients have been employed to facilitate and abridge the
manipulations. In the first place, the phials for testing or assaying
the specimens of silver should all be of the same height and of the same
diameter. They should be numbered at their top, as well as on their
stoppers, in the order 1, 2, 3, &c. They may be ranged successively in
tens; the stoppers of the same series being placed on a support in their
proper order. Each two phials should, in their turn, be placed in a
japanned tin case (_fig._ 90.) with ten compartments duly numbered.
These compartments are cut out anteriorly to about half their height, to
allow the bottoms of the bottles to be seen. When each phial has
received its portion of alloy, through a wide-beaked funnel, there must
be poured into it about 10 grammes of nitric acid, of specific gravity
1.28, with a _pipette_, containing that quantity; it is then exposed to
the heat of a water bath, in order to facilitate the solution of the
alloy. The water bath is an oblong vessel made of tin plate, intended to
receive the phials. It has a moveable double bottom, pierced with small
holes, for the purpose of preventing the phials being broken, as it
insulates them from the bottom to which the heat is applied. The
solution is rapid; and, since it emits nitrous vapours in abundance, it
ought to be carried on under a chimney.

[Illustration: 90 91]

_The agitator._--_Fig._ 91. gives a sufficiently exact idea of it, and
may dispense with a lengthened description. It has ten cylindrical
compartments, numbered from 1 to 10. The phials, after the solution of
the alloy, are arranged in it in the order of their numbers. The
agitator is then placed within reach of the _pipette_, intended to
measure out the normal solution of sea salt, and a _pipette_ full of
this solution is put into each phial. Each is then closed with its glass
stopper, previously dipped in pure water. They are fixed in the cells of
the agitator by wooden wedges. The agitator is then suspended to a
spring R, and, seizing it with the two hands, the operator gives an
alternating rapid movement, which agitates the solution, and makes it,
in less than a minute, as limpid as water. This movement is promoted by
a spiral spring, B, fixed to the agitator and the ground; but this is
seldom made use of, because it is convenient to be able to transport the
agitator from one place to another. When the agitation is finished, the
wedges are to be taken out, and the phials are placed in order upon a
table furnished with round cells destined to receive them, and to screen
them from too free a light.

When we place the phials upon this table, we must give them a brisk
circular motion, to collect the chloride of silver scattered round their
sides; we must lift out their stoppers, and suspend them in wire rings,
or pincers. We next pour a thousandth of the decime solution into each
phial; and before this operation is terminated, there is formed in the
first phials, when there _should be_ a precipitate, a nebulous stratum,
very well marked, of about a centimetre in thickness.

At the back of the table there is a black board divided into
compartments numbered from 1 to 10, upon each of which we mark, with
chalk, the thousandths of the decime liquor put into the correspondent
phial. The thousandths of sea salt, which indicate an augmentation of
standard, are preceded by the sign +, and the thousandths of nitrate of
silver by the sign -.

When the assays are finished, the liquor of each phial is to be poured
into a large vessel, in which a slight excess of sea salt is kept; and
when it is full, the supernatant clear liquid must be run off with a
syphon.

The chloride of silver may be reduced without any perceptible loss.
After having washed it well, we immerse pieces of iron or zinc into it,
and add sulphuric acid in sufficient quantity to keep up a feeble
disengagement of hydrogen gas. The mass must not be touched. In a few
days the silver is completely reduced. This is easily recognised by the
colour and nature of the product; or by treating a small quantity of it
with water of ammonia, we shall see whether there be any chloride
unreduced; for it will be dissolved by the ammonia, and will afterwards
appear upon saturating the ammonia with an acid. The chlorine remains
associated with the iron or the zinc in a state of solution. The first
washings of the reduced silver must be made with an acidulous water, to
dissolve the oxide of iron which may have been formed, and the other
washings with common water. After decanting the water of the last
washing, we dry the mass, and add a little powdered borax to it. It must
be now fused. The silver being in a bulky powder is to be put in
successive portions into a crucible as it sinks down. The heat should be
at first moderate; but towards the end of the operation it must be
pretty strong to bring into complete fusion the silver and the scoriae,
and to effect their complete separation. In case it should be supposed
that the whole of the silver had not been reduced by the iron or zinc, a
little carbonate of potash should be added to the borax. The silver may
also be reduced by exposing the chloride to a strong heat, in contact
with chalk and charcoal.

The following remarks by M. Gay Lussac, the author of the above method,
upon the effect of a little mercury in the humid assay, are important:--

It is well known that chloride of silver blackens the more readily as it
is exposed to an intense light, and that even in the diffused light of a
room, it becomes soon sensibly coloured. If it contains four to five
thousandths of mercury, it does not blacken; it remains of a dead white:
with three thousandths of mercury, there is no marked discolouring in
diffused light; with two thousandths it is slight; with one it is much
more marked, but still it is much less intense than with pure chloride.
With half a thousandth of mercury the difference of colour is not
remarkable, and is perceived only in a very moderate light.

But when the quantity of mercury is so small that it cannot be detected
by the difference of colour in the chloride of silver, it may be
rendered quite evident by a very simple process of concentration.
Dissolve one gramme of the silver supposed to contain 1/4 of a
thousandth of mercury, and let only 1/4 of it be precipitated, by adding
only 1/4 of the common salt necessary to precipitate it entirely. In
thus operating, the 1/4 thousandth of mercury is concentrated in a
quantity of chloride of silver four times smaller: it is as if the
silver having been entirely precipitated, four times as much mercury,
equal to two thousandths, had been precipitated with it.

In taking two grammes of silver, and precipitating only 1/4 by common
salt, the precipitate would be, with respect to the chloride of silver,
as if it amounted to four thousandths. By this process, which occupies
only five minutes, because exact weighing is not necessary, 1/10 of a
thousandth of mercury may be detected in silver.

It is not useless to observe, that in making those experiments the most
exact manner of introducing small quantities of mercury into a solution
of silver, is to weigh a minute globule of mercury, and to dissolve it
in nitric acid, diluting the solution so that it may contain as many
cubic centimetres as the globule weighs of centigrammes. Each cubic
centimetre, taken by means of a _pipette_, will contain one milligramme
of mercury.

If the ingot of silver to be assayed is found to contain a greater
quantity of mercury, one thousandth for example, the humid process ought
either to be given up in this case, or to be compared with cupellation.

When the silver contains mercury, the solution from which the mixed
chlorides are precipitated, does not readily become clear.

Silver containing mercury, put into a small crucible and mixed with lamp
black, to prevent the volatilization of the silver, was heated for three
quarters of an hour in a muffle, but the silver increased sensibly in
weight. This process for separating the mercury, therefore, failed. It
is to be observed, that mercury is the only metal which has thus the
power of disturbing the analysis by the humid way.

ASSAYING OF GOLD.--In estimating or expressing the fineness of gold, the
whole mass spoken of is supposed to weigh 24 carats of 12 grains each,
either real, or merely proportional, like the assayer's weights; and the
pure gold is called fine. Thus, if gold be said to be 23 carats fine, it
is to be understood, that in a mass, weighing 24 carats, the quantity of
pure gold amounts to 23 carats.

In such small work as cannot be assayed by scraping off a part and
cupelling it, the assayers endeavour to ascertain its fineness or
quality by the touch. This is a method of comparing the colour and other
properties, of a minute portion of the metal, with those of small bars,
the composition of which is known. These bars are called touch needles,
and they are rubbed upon a smooth piece of black basaltes or pottery,
which, for this reason, is called the touchstone. Black flint slate will
serve the same purpose. Sets of gold needles may consist of pure gold;
of pure gold, 23-1/2 carats with 1/2 carat of silver; 23 carats of gold
with one carat of silver; 22-1/2 carats of gold with 1-1/2 carat of
silver; and so on, till the silver amounts to four carats; after which
the additions may proceed by whole carats. Other needles may be made in
the same manner, with copper instead of silver; and other sets may have
the addition, consisting either of equal parts of silver and copper, or
of such proportions as the occasions of business require. The
examination by the touch may be advantageously employed previous to
quartation, to indicate the quantity of silver necessary to be added.

In foreign countries, where trinkets and small work are required to be
submitted to the assay of the touch, a variety of needles is necessary;
but they are not much used in England. They afford, however, a degree of
information which is more considerable than might at first be expected.
The attentive assayer compares not only the colour of the stroke made
upon the touchstone by the metal under examination, with that produced
by his needle, but will likewise attend to the sensation of roughness,
dryness, smoothness, or greasiness, which the texture of the rubbed
metal excites, when abraded by the stone. When two strokes perfectly
alike in colour are made upon the stone, he may then wet them with
aquafortis, which will affect them very differently, if they be not
similar compositions; or the stone itself may be made red-hot by the
fire, or by the blowpipe, if thin black pottery be used; in which case
the phenomena of oxidation will differ, according to the nature and
quantity of the alloy. Six principal circumstances appear to affect the
operation of parting; namely, the quantity of acid used in parting, or
in the first boiling; the concentration of this acid; the time employed
in its application; the quantity of acid made use of in the _reprise_,
or second operation; its concentration; and the time during which it is
applied. From experiment it has been shown, that each of these
unfavourable circumstances might easily occasion a loss of from the half
of a thirty-second part of a carat, to two thirty-second parts. The
assayers explain their technical language by observing, that in the
whole mass consisting of twenty-four carats, this thirty-second part
denotes 1-768th part of the mass. It may easily be conceived, therefore,
that if the whole six circumstances were to exist, and be productive of
errors, falling the same way, the loss would be very considerable.

It is therefore indispensably necessary, that one uniform process should
be followed in the assays of gold; and it is a matter of astonishment,
that such an accurate process should not have been prescribed by
government for assayers, in an operation of such great commercial
importance, instead of every one being left to follow his own judgment.
The process recommended in the old French official report is as
follows:--twelve grains of the gold intended to be assayed must be mixed
with thirty grains of fine silver, and cupelled with 108 grains of lead.
The cupellation must be carefully attended to, and all the imperfect
buttons rejected. When the cupellation is ended, the button must be
reduced, by lamination, into a plate of 1-1/2 inches, or rather more, in
length, and four or five lines in breadth. This must be rolled up upon a
quill, and placed in a matrass capable of holding about three ounces of
liquid, when filled up to its narrow part. Two ounces and a half of very
pure aquafortis, of the strength of 20 degrees of Baume's areometer,
must then be poured upon it; and the matrass being placed upon hot
ashes, or sand, the acid must be kept gently boiling for a quarter of an
hour: the acid must then be cautiously decanted, and an additional
quantity of 1-1/2 ounces must be poured upon the metal, and slightly
boiled for twelve minutes. This being likewise carefully decanted, the
small spiral piece of metal must be washed with filtered river water, or
distilled water, by filling the matrass with this fluid. The vessel is
then to be reversed, by applying the extremity of its neck against the
bottom of a crucible of fine earth, the internal surface of which is
very smooth. The annealing must now be made, after having separated the
portion of water which had fallen into the crucible; and, lastly, the
annealed gold must be weighed. For the certainty of this operation, two
assays must be made in the same manner, together with a third assay upon
gold of twenty-four carats, or upon gold the fineness of which is
perfectly and generally known.

No conclusion must be drawn from this assay, unless the latter gold
should prove to be of the fineness of twenty-four carats exactly, or of
its known degree of fineness; for, if there be either loss or surplus,
it may be inferred, that the other two assays, having undergone the same
operation, must be subject to the same error. The operation being made
according to this process by several assayers, in circumstances of
importance, such as those which relate to large fabrications, the
fineness of the gold must not be depended upon, nor considered as
accurately known, unless all the assayers have obtained an uniform
result, without communication with each other. This identity must be
considered as referring to the accuracy of half the thirty-second part
of a carat. For, notwithstanding every possible precaution or
uniformity, it very seldom happens that an absolute agreement is
obtained between the different assays of one and the same ingot; because
the ingot itself may differ in its fineness in different parts of its
mass.

The phenomena of the cupellation of gold are the same as of silver, only
the operation is less delicate, for no gold is lost by evaporation or
penetration into the bone-ash, and therefore it bears safely the highest
heat of the assay furnace. The button of gold never vegetates, and need
not therefore be drawn out to the front of the muffle, but may be left
at the further end till the assay is complete. Copper is retained more
strongly by gold than it is by silver; so that with it 16 parts of lead
are requisite to sweat out 1 of copper; or, in general, twice as much
lead must be taken for the copper alloys of gold, as for those of
silver. When the copper is alloyed with very small quantities of gold,
cupellation would afford very uncertain results; we must then have
recourse to liquid analysis.

M. Vauquelin recommends to boil 60 parts of nitric acid at 22 deg. Baume, on
the spiral slip or cornet of gold and silver alloy, for twenty-five
minutes, and replace the liquid afterwards by acid of 32 deg., which must be
boiled on it for eight minutes. This process is free from uncertainty
when the assay is performed upon an alloy containing a considerable
quantity of copper. But this is not the case in assaying finer gold; for
then a little silver always remains in the gold. The surcharge which
occurs here is 2 or 3 thousandths; this is too much, and it is an
intolerable error when it becomes greater, which often happens. This
evil may be completely avoided by employing the following process of M.
Chaudet. He takes 0.500 of the fine gold to be assayed; cupels it with
1.500 of silver, and 1.000 of lead; forms, with the button from the
cupel, a riband or strip three inches long, which he rolls into a
cornet. He puts this into a mattrass with acid at 22 deg. B., which he boils
for 3 or 4 minutes. He replaces this by acid of 32 deg. B., and boils for
ten minutes; then decants off, and boils again with acid of 32 deg., which
must be finally boiled for 8 or 10 minutes.

Gold thus treated is very pure. He washes the cornet, and puts it entire
into a small crucible permeable to water; heats the crucible to dull
redness under the muffle, when the gold assumes the metallic lustre, and
the cornet becomes solid. It is now taken out of the crucible and
weighed.

When the alloy contains platinum, the assay presents greater
difficulties. In general, to separate the platinum from the gold with
accuracy, we must avail ourselves of a peculiar property of platinum;
when alloyed with silver, it becomes soluble in nitric acid. Therefore,
by a proper quartation of the alloy by cupellation, and boiling the
button with nitric acid, we may get a residuum of pure gold. If we were
to treat the button with sulphuric acid, however, we should dissolve
nothing but the silver. The copper is easily removed by cupellation.
Hence, supposing that we have a quaternary compound of copper, silver,
platinum, and gold, we first cupel it, and weigh the button obtained;
the loss denotes the copper. This button, treated by sulphuric acid,
will suffer a loss of weight equal to the amount of silver present. The
residuum, by quartation with silver and boiling with nitric acid, will
part with its platinum, and the gold will remain pure. For more detailed
explanations, see PLATINUM.


ATOMIC WEIGHTS or ATOMS, are the primal quantities in which the
different objects of chemistry, simple or compound, combine with each
other, referred to a common body, taken as unity. Oxygen is assumed by
some philosophers, and hydrogen by others, as the standard of
comparison. Every chemical manufacturer should be thoroughly acquainted
with the combining ratios which are, for the same two substances, not
only definite, but multiple; two great truths, upon which are founded
not merely the _rationale_ of his operations, but also the means of
modifying them to useful purposes. The discussion of the doctrine of
atomic weights, or prime equivalents, belongs to pure chemistry; but
several of its happiest applications are to be found in the processes of
art, as pursued upon the greatest scale. For many instructive examples
of this proposition, the various chemical manufactures may be consulted
in this Dictionary.


ATTAR OF ROSES. See OILS, VOLATILE, and PERFUMERY.


AURUM MUSIVUM. Mosaic gold, a preparation of tin; which see.


AUTOMATIC, a term which I have employed to designate such economic arts
as are carried on by self-acting machinery. The word "manufacture," in
its etymological sense, means any system, or objects of industry,
executed by the hands; but in the vicissitude of language, it has now
come to signify every extensive product of art which is made by
machinery, with little or no aid of the human hand, so that the most
perfect manufacture is that which dispenses entirely with manual
labour.[4] It is in our modern cotton and flax mills that automatic
operations are displayed to most advantage; for there the elemental
powers have been made to animate millions of complex organs, infusing
into forms of wood, iron, and brass, an intelligent agency. And as the
philosophy of the fine arts, poetry, painting, and music, may be best
studied in their individual master-pieces, so may the philosophy of
manufactures in these its noblest creations.[5]

  [4] Philosophy of Manufactures, p. 1.

  [5] Ibid., p. 2.

The constant aim and effect of these automatic improvements in the arts
are philanthropic, as they tend to relieve the workmen either from
niceties of adjustment, which exhaust his mind and fatigue his eyes, or
from painful repetition of effort, which distort and wear out his frame.
A well arranged power-mill combines the operation of many work-people,
adult and young, in tending with assiduous skill, a system of productive
machines continuously impelled by a central force. How vastly conducive
to the commercial greatness of a nation, and the comforts of mankind,
human industry can become, when no longer proportioned in its results to
muscular effort, which is by its nature fitful and capricious, but when
made to consist in the task of guiding the work of mechanical fingers
and arms regularly impelled, with equal precision and velocity, by some
indefatigable physical agent, is apparent to every visitor of our
cotton, flax, silk, wool, and machine factories. This great era in the
useful arts is mainly due to the genius of Arkwright. Prior to the
introduction of his system, manufactures were every where feeble and
fluctuating in their development; shooting forth luxuriantly for a
season, and again withering almost to the roots like annual plants.
Their perennial growth then began, and attracted capital, in copious
streams, to irrigate the rich domains of industry. When this new career
commenced, about the year 1770, the annual consumption of cotton in
British manufactures was under four millions of pounds' weight, and that
of the whole of Christendom was probably not more than ten millions.
Last year the consumption in Great Britain and Ireland was about two
hundred and seventy millions of pounds, and that of Europe and the
United States together, four hundred and eighty millions. In our
spacious factory apartments the benignant power of steam summons around
him his myriads of willing menials, and assigns to each the regulated
task, substituting, for painful muscular effort upon their part, the
energies of his own gigantic arm, and demanding, in return, only
attention and dexterity to correct such little aberrations as casually
occur in his workmanship. Under his auspices, and in obedience to
Arkwright's polity, magnificent edifices, surpassing far in number,
value, usefulness, and ingenuity of construction, the boasted monuments
of Asiatic, Egyptian, and Roman despotism, have, within the short period
of fifty years, risen up in this kingdom, to show to what extent
capital, industry, and science, may augment the resources of a state,
while they meliorate the condition of its citizens. Such is the
automatic system, replete with prodigies in mechanics and political
economy, which promises, in its future growth, to become the great
minister of civilisation to the terraqueous globe, enabling this
country, as its heart, to diffuse, along with its commerce, the
life-blood of knowledge and religion to myriads of people still lying
"in the region and shadow of death."[6] Of these truths, the present
work affords decisive evidence in almost every page.

  [6] Philosophy of Manufactures, p. 18.


AUTOMATON. In the etymological sense, this word (self-working) signifies
every mechanical construction which, by virtue of a latent intrinsic
force, not obvious to common eyes, can carry on, for some time, certain
movements more or less resembling the results of animal exertion,
without the aid of external impulse. In this respect, all kinds of
clocks and watches, planetariums, common and smoke jacks, with a vast
number of the machines now employed in our cotton, silk, flax, and wool
factories, as well as in our dyeing and calico printing works, may be
denominated automatic. But the term, automaton, is, in common language,
appropriated to that class of mechanical artifices in which the
purposely concealed power is made to imitate the arbitrary or voluntary
motions of living beings. Human figures, of this kind, are sometimes
styled _Androides_, from the Greek term, _like a man_.

Although, from what we have said, clock-work is not properly placed
under the head automaton, it cannot be doubted that the art of making
clocks in its progressive improvement and extension, has given rise to
the production of automata. The most of these, in their interior
structure, as well as in the mode of applying the moving power, have a
distinct analogy with clocks; and these automata are frequently mounted
in connection with watch work. Towards the end of the 13th century,
several tower clocks, such as those at Strasburg, Lubeck, Prague,
Olmutz, had curious mechanisms attached to them. The most careful
historical inquiry proves that automata, properly speaking, are
certainly not older than _wheel_-clocks; and that the more perfect
structures of this kind are subsequent to the general introduction of
_spring_ clocks. Many accounts of ancient automata, such as the flying
doves of Archytas of Tarentum, Regiomontanus's iron flies, the eagle
which flew towards the emperor Maximilian, in Nurenberg, in the year
1470, were deceptions, or exaggerated statements; for, three such
masterpieces of art would form now, with every aid of our improved
mechanisms, the most difficult of problems. The imitation of flying
creatures is extremely difficult, for several reasons. There is very
little space for the moving power, and the only material possessed of
requisite strength being metal, must have considerable weight. Two
automata, of the celebrated French mechanician, Vaucauson, first
exhibited in the year 1738, have been greatly admired; namely a
flute-player, five and a half feet high, with its cubical pedestal,
which played several airs upon the German flute; and that, not by any
interior tube-work, but through the actual blowing of air into the
flute, the motion of the tongue, and the skilful stopping of the holes
with the fingers; as also a duck, which imitated many motions of a
natural kind in the most extraordinary manner. This artist has had many
imitators, of whom the brothers, Droz of Chaux de Fonds, were the most
distinguished. Several very beautiful clock mechanisms of theirs are
known. One of them with a figure which draws; another playing on the
piano; a third which writes, besides numerous other combined automata.
Frederick Von Knauss completed a writing machine at Vienna, in the year
1760. It is now in the model cabinet of the Polytechnic Institute, and
consists of a globe 2 feet in diameter, containing the mechanism upon
which a figure 7 inches high sits, and writes upon a sheet of paper
fixed to a frame, whatever has been placed beforehand upon a regulating
cylinder. At the end of every line, it rises and moves its hand
sideways, in order to begin a new line.

Very complete automata have not been made of late years, because they
are very expensive; and by soon satisfying curiosity, they cease to
interest. Ingenious mechanicians find themselves better rewarded by
directing their talents to the self-acting machinery of modern
manufactures. We may notice here, however, the mechanical trumpeter of
Maelzl, at Vienna, and a similar work of Kauffmann, at Dresden. In French
Switzerland some artists continue to make minute automata which excite
no little wonder; such as singing canary birds, with various movements
of a natural kind; also little birds, sometimes hardly three quarters of
an inch long, in snuff-boxes and watches of enamelled gold. Certain
artificial figures which have been denominated automata, hardly deserve
the name; since trick and confederacy are more or less concerned in
their operation. To this head belong a number of figures apparently
speaking by mechanism; a clock which begins to strike, or to play, when
a person makes a sign of holding up his finger; this effect being
probably produced by a concealed green-finch, or other little bird,
instructed to set off the _detente_ of the wheel-work at a signal. It is
likely, also, that the chess player of Von Kempelen, which excited so
much wonder in the last century, had a concealed confederate. Likewise,
the very ingenious little figures of Tendler, father and son, which
imitated English horsemen and rope-dancers, constructed at Eisenerz, in
Styria, are probably no more true automata than the _fantoccini_, or
figures of puppets which are exhibited in great perfection in many towns
of Italy, especially at Rome.

The moving power of almost all automata is a wound-up steel spring;
because, in comparison with other means of giving motion, it takes up
the smallest room, is easiest concealed, and set a going. Weights are
seldom employed, and only in a partial way. The employment of other
moving powers is more limited; sometimes fine sand is made to fall on
the circumference of a wheel, by which the rest of the mechanism is
moved. For the same purpose water has been employed; and, when it is
made to fall into an air-chamber, it causes sufficient wind to excite
musical sounds in pipes. In particular cases quicksilver has been used,
as, for example, in the Chinese tumblers, which is only a physical
apparatus to illustrate the doctrine of the centre of gravity.

Figures are frequently constructed for playthings, which move by wheels
hardly visible. An example of this simplest kind of automaton which may
be introduced here, as illustrating the self-acting principles of
manufactures, is shown in the figure.

[Illustration: 92]

_Fig._ 92. exhibits the outlines of an automaton, representing a swan,
with suitably combined movements. The mechanism may be described, for
the sake of clearness of explanation, under distinct heads. The first
relates to the motion of the whole figure. By means of this part it
swims upon the water, in directions changed from time to time without
exterior agency. Another construction gives to the figure the faculty of
bending its neck on several occasions, and, to such an extent, that it
can plunge the bill and a portion of the head under water. Lastly, it is
made to move its head and neck slowly from side to side.

On the barrel of the spring, exterior to the usual ratchet wheel, there
is a main-wheel, marked 1, which works into the pinion of the wheel 2.
The wheel 2 moves a smaller one, shown merely in dotted lines, and on
the long axis of the latter, at either end there is a rudder, or
water-wheel, the paddles of which are denoted by the letter _a_. Both of
these rudder-wheels extend through an oblong opening in the bottom of
the figure down into the water. They turn in the direction of the arrow,
and impart a straight-forwards movement to the swan. The chamber, in
which these wheels revolve, is made water tight, to prevent moisture
being thrown upon the rest of the machinery. By the wheel 4, motion is
conveyed to the fly-pinion 5; the fly itself 6, serves to regulate the
working of the whole apparatus, and it is provided with a stop bar, not
shown in the engraving, to bring it to rest, or set it a-going at
pleasure. Here, as we may imagine, the path pursued is rectilinear, when
the rudder-wheels are made to work in a square direction. An oblique
bar, seen only in section at _b_, movable about its middle point,
carries at each end a web foot _c_, so that the direction of the bar
_b_, and of both feet towards the rudder wheels, determines the form of
the path which the figure will describe. The change of direction of that
oblique bar is effected without other agency. For this purpose, the
wheel 1 takes into the pinion 7, and this carries round the crown-wheel
8, which is fixed, with an eccentric disc 9, upon a common axis. While
the crown-wheel moves in the direction of the arrow, it turns the
smaller eccentric portion of the elliptic disc towards the lever _m_,
which, pressed upon incessantly by its spring, assumes, by degrees, the
position corresponding with the middle line of the figure, and
afterwards an oblique position; then it goes back again, and reaches its
first situation; consequently through the reciprocal turning of the bar
_h_, and the swim-foot, is determined and varied the path which the swan
must pursue. This construction is available with all automata, which
work by wheels; and it is obvious, that we may, by different forms of
the disc 9, modify, at pleasure, the direction and the velocity of the
turnings. If the disc is a circle for instance, then the changes will
take place less suddenly; if the disc has an outward and inward
curvature, upon whose edge the end of the lever presses with a roller,
the movement will take place in a serpentine line.

The neck is the part which requires the most careful workmanship. Its
outward case must be flexible, and the neck itself should therefore be
made of a tube of spiral wire, covered with leather, or with a feathered
bird-skin. The double line in the interior, where we see the triangles
_e e e_, denotes a steel spring made fast to the plate 10, which forms
the bottom of the neck; it stands loose, and needs to be merely so
strong as to keep the neck straight, or to bend it a little backwards.
It should not be equally thick in all points, but it should be weaker
where the first graceful bend is to be made; and, in general, its
stiffness ought to correspond to the curvature of the neck of this bird.
The triangles _e_ are made fast at their base to the front surface of
the spring; in the points of each there is a slit, in the middle of
which a movable roller is set, formed of a smoothly turned steel rod. A
thin catgut string _f_, runs from the upper end of the spring, where it
is fixed over all these rollers, and passes through an aperture pierced
in the middle of 10, into the inside of the rump. If the catgut be drawn
straight back towards _f_, the spring, and consequently the neck, must
obviously be bent, and so much the more, the more tightly _f_ is pulled,
and is shortened in the hollow of the neck. How this is accomplished by
the wheel-work will presently be shown. The wheel 11 receives its motion
from the pinion _s_, connected with the main wheel 1. Upon 11 there is,
moreover, the disc 12, to whose circumference a slender chain is
fastened. When the wheel 11 turns in the direction of the arrow, the
chain will be so much pulled onwards through the corresponding advance
at the point at 12, till this point has come to the place opposite to
its present situation, and, consequently, 11 must have performed half a
revolution. The other end of the chain is hung in the groove of a very
movable roller 14; and this will be turned immediately by the unwinding
of the chain upon its axis. There turns, in connection with it, however,
the large roller 13, to which the catgut _f_ is fastened; and as this is
pulled in the direction of the arrow, the neck will be bent until the
wheel 11 has made a half revolution. Then the drag ceases again to act
upon the chain and the catgut; the spring in the neck comes into play:
it becomes straight, erects the neck of the animal, and turns the
rollers 13 and 14, back into their first position.

The roller 13 is of considerable size, in order that through the slight
motion of the roller 14, a sufficient length of the catgut may be wound
off, and the requisite shortening of the neck may be effected; which
results from the proportion of the diameters of the rollers 11, 13, and
14. This part of the mechanism is attached as near to the side of the
hollow body as possible, to make room for the interior parts, but
particularly for the paddle-wheels. Since the catgut, _f_, must pass
downwards on the middle from 10, it is necessary to incline it sideways
and outwards towards 13, by means of some small rollers.

The head, constituting one piece with the neck, will be depressed by the
complete flexure of this; and the bill, being turned downwards in front
of the breast, will touch the surface of the water. The head will not be
motionless; but it is joined on both sides by a very movable hinge, with
the light ring, which forms the upper part of the clothing of the neck.
A weak spring, _g_, also fastened to the end of the neck, tends to turn
the head backwards; but in the present position it cannot do so, because
a chain at _g_, whose other end is attached to the plate 10, keeps it on
the stretch. On the bending of the neck, this chain becomes slack; the
spring _g_ comes into operation, and throws the head so far back, that,
in its natural position, it will reach the water.

Finally, to render the turning of the head and the neck practicable, the
latter is not closely connected with the rump, while the plate 10 can
turn in a cylindrical manner upon its axis, but cannot become loose
outwardly. Moreover, there is upon the axis of the wheel 1, and behind
it (shown merely as a circle in the engraving) a bevel wheel, which
works into a second similar wheel, 15, so as to turn it in a horizontal
direction. The pin 16, of the last wheel, works upon a two-armed lever
19, movable round the point _h_, and this lever moves the neck by means
of the pin 17. The shorter arm of the lever 19 has an oval aperture in
which the pin 16 stands. As soon as this, in consequence of the movement
of the bevel-wheel 15, comes into the dotted position, it pushes the
oval ring outwards on its smaller diameter, and thereby turns the lever
upon the point _h_, into the oblique direction shown by the dotted
lines. The pin 16, having come on its way right opposite to its present
position, sets the lever again straight. Then the lever, by the further
progress of the pin in its circular path, is directed outwards to the
opposite side; and, at last, when 15 has made an entire revolution, it
is quite straight. The longer arm of the lever follows, of course, these
alternating movements, so that it turns the neck upon its plate 10, by
means of the pin 17; and, as 18 denotes the bill, this comes into the
dotted position. It may be remarked in conclusion, that the drawing of
_fig._ 92. represents about half the size of which the automaton may be
constructed, and that the body may be formed of thin sheet-copper or
brass.

[Illustration: 94 95]

_Fig._ 93, 94, 95. show the plan of a third automaton. A horse which
moves its feet in a natural way, and draws a carriage with two figures
sitting in it. The man appears to drive the horse with a whip; the woman
bends forwards from him in front. The four wheels of the carriage have
no connection with the moving mechanism. In _fig._ 95., some parts are
represented upon a larger scale. The wheel 1, in _fig._ 93. operates
through the two carrier wheels upon the wheels marked 4 and 5. By means
of the axis of these two wheels, the feet are set in motion. The left
fore-foot, _a_, then the right hinder foot, move themselves backwards,
and take hold of the ground with small tacks in their hoofs, while the
two other legs are bent and raised, but no motion of the body takes
place. The carriage, however, with which the horse is connected,
advances upon its wheels. By studying the mechanism of the foot, _a_,
and the parts connected with it, we can readily understand the
principles of the movement. The axis of wheel 4 is crank-shaped, on both
sides, where it has to operate directly on the fore feet; but for each
foot, it is bent in an opposite direction, as is obvious in the front
view _fig._ 94. This crank, or properly its part furthest from the axis,
serves instead of the pin 16, in the swan, and moves like it in an oval
spot, _p_, _fig._ 93. a two-armed lever, which gives motion through
tooth-work, but not as in the swan, by means of a second pin. This
wheel-work renders the motion smoother. The above lever has its fulcrum
at _n_, _fig._ 93., about which it turns alternately, to the one and the
other side, by virtue of the rotation of the wheel 4. The toothed arch,
or the half-wheel on the under side, lays hold of a shorter lever, in a
similar arch, upon the upper joint of the foot, which is moved forwards
and backwards upon the pivot _m_. In virtue of the motions in the
direction of the arrow, the foot _a_ will move itself first obliquely
backwards, without bending, and the body will thereby bend itself
forwards. When the right hind foot makes the same motion, both the other
feet are raised and bent. The joints of the foot at _d_ and _e_ are
formed of hinges, which are so constructed that they can yield no
farther than is necessary at every oblique position of the foot. With
the continued rotation of the wheel 4, the lever turns itself about _n_,
in an inverted direction inwards, and impels the uppermost foot-joint
forwards, so that it forms an acute angle with the body in front. The
foot is now twice bent upon its joints. This takes place by the traction
of the chain _t_, which is led over rollers (as the drawing shows) to
the foot, and is there fastened. As its upper end has its fixed point in
the interior of the body, it is therefore drawn by the eccentric pin _r_
standing in the vicinity of _m_, and thus bends the foot at the hinges.
If there were space for it, a roller would answer better than a pin. By
the recedure of the uppermost joint into the first position, the tension
of the chain _t_ ceases again of itself, while the pin _r_ removes from
it, and the foot is again extended in a straight line by the small
springs operating upon its two under parts, which were previously bent
stiffly by the chain. By the aid of the figures with this explanation,
it will be apparent that all the fore feet have a similar construction,
that the proper succession of motions will be effected through the
toothed arcs, and the position of the cranks on the axis of the wheels 4
and 5, and hence the advance of the figure must follow. The wheel 6 puts
the fly 7 in motion, by means of the small wheel marked 1; on the fixed
points of the 4 chains, by means of a ratchet-wheel and a catch, the
necessary tension will again be produced when the chains have been drawn
out a little. There is sufficient room for a mechanism which could give
motion to the head and ears, were it thought necessary.

The proper cause of the motions may now be explained. In _fig._ 95.,
_a_, is a wheel connected with the wound-up spring, by which the motion
of the two human figures, and also, if desired, that of the horse may be
effected. The axis of the wheel _b_ carries a disc with pins, which
operate upon the two-armed lever with its fulcrum _e_, and thus cause
the bending of the upper part of one of the figures, which has a hinge
at _f_. On the axis of that wheel there is a second disc _c_, for giving
motion to the other figure; which, for the sake of clearness, is shown
separate, although it should sit alongside of its fellow. On the upper
end of the double-armed lever _d_, there is a cord whose other end is
connected with the moving arm, in the situation _i_, and raises it
whenever a pin in the disc presses the under part of the lever. A spring
_h_ brings the arm back into the original position, when a pin has
passed from the lever, and has left it behind. The pins at _c_ and _d_
may be set at different distances from the middle of the disc, whereby
the motions of the figures by every contact of another pin, are varied,
and are therefore not so uniform, and consequently more natural.

For the connexion of both mechanisms, namely, the carriage with the
horse, various arrangements may be adopted. Two separate traction
springs should be employed; one at _a_, _fig._ 95., in the coach-seat;
the other in the body of the horse. In the coach-seat at _b_, the fly
with its pinion, as well as a ratchet-wheel, is necessary. By means of
the shaft, the horse is placed in connexion with the waggon. It may,
however, receive its motion from the spring in the carriage, in which
case one spring will be sufficient. Upon the latter plan the following
construction maybe adopted:--To the axis of _b_, _fig._ 95., a bevel
wheel is to be attached, and from this the motion is to be transmitted
to the bottom of the carriage with the help of a second bevel wheel _s_,
connected with a third bevel wheel _t_. This again turns the wheel _u_,
whose long axis _v_ goes to the middle of the horse's body, in an
oblique direction, through the hollow shaft. This axis carries an
endless screw 9, _fig._ 93., with very oblique threads, which works into
the little wheel 8, corresponding to the wheel 1, through an opening in
the side of the horse, and in this way sets the mechanism of the horse
a-going. With this construction of _fig._ 95., a spring of considerable
strength is necessary, or if the height of the carriage-seat does not
afford sufficient room, its breadth will answer for placing two weaker
springs alongside of each other upon a common barrel.


AXE. A tool much used by carpenters for cleaving, and roughly
fashioning, blocks of wood. It is a flat iron wedge, with an oblong
steel edge, parallel to which, in the short base, is a hole for
receiving and holding fast the end of a strong wooden handle. In the
cooper's _adze_, the oblong edge is at right angles to the handle, and
is slightly curved up, or inflected towards it.


AXLES, of carriages; for their latest improvements, see WHEEL CARRIAGES.


AXUNGE. Hog's lard; see FAT and OILS.


AZOTIZED, said of certain vegetable substances, which, as containing
azote, were supposed at one time to partake, in some measure, of the
animal nature; most animal bodies being characterised by the presence of
much azote in their composition. The vegetable products, indigo,
cafeine, gluten, and many others, contain abundance of azote.


AZURE, the fine blue pigment, commonly called smalt, is a glass coloured
with oxide of cobalt, and ground to an impalpable powder.

The manufacture of azure, or smalt, has been lately improved in Sweden,
by the adoption of the following process:--

The cobalt ore is first roasted till the greater part of the arsenic is
driven off. The residuary impure black oxide is mixed with as much
sulphuric acid (concentrated) as will make it into a paste, which is
exposed at first to a moderate heat, then to a cherry-red ignition for
an hour. The sulphate thus obtained is reduced to powder, and dissolved
in water. To the solution, carbonate of potash is gradually added, in
order to separate the remaining portion of oxide of iron; the quantity
of which depends upon the previous degree of calcination. If it be not
enough oxidized, the iron is difficult to be got rid of.

When, from the colour of the precipitate, we find that the potash
separates merely carbonate of cobalt, it is allowed to settle, the
supernatant liquor is decanted, and precipitated, by means of a solution
of silicate of potash, prepared as follows:--

Ten parts of potash are carefully mixed with fifteen parts of finely
ground flints or sand, and one part of pounded charcoal. This mixture is
melted in a crucible of brick clay, an operation which requires steady
ignition during 5 or 6 hours. The mass, when melted and pulverized, may
be easily dissolved in boiling water, adding to it, by little at a time,
the glass previously ground. The filtered solution is colourless, and
keeps well in the air, if it contains one part of glass for 5 or 6 of
water. The silicate of cobalt, which precipitates upon mixing the two
solutions, is the preparation of cobalt most suitable for painting upon
porcelain, and for the manufacture of blue glass. See COBALT.




B.


BABLAH. The rind or shell which surrounds the fruit of the _mimosa
cineraria_; it comes from the East Indies, as also from Senegal, under
the name of Neb-neb. It contains gallic acid, tannin, a red colouring
matter, and an azotized substance; but the proportion of tannin is
smaller than in sumach, galls, and _knoppern_ (gall-nuts of the common
oak) in reference to that of gallic acid, which is considerable in the
bablah. It has been used, in dyeing cotton, for producing various shades
of drab; as a substitute for the more expensive astringent die-stuffs.


BAGASSE. The sugar-cane, in its dry, crushed state, as delivered from
the sugar-mill. It is much employed for fuel in the colonial
sugar-houses.


BAKING. (_Cuire_, Fr. _Backen_, Germ.) The exposure of any body to such
a heat as will dry and consolidate its parts without wasting them. Thus
wood, pottery, and porcelain, are baked, as well as bread.


BALANCE. To conduct arts, manufactures, and mines, with judgment and
success, recourse must be had, at almost every step, to a balance.
Experience proves that all material bodies, existing upon the surface of
the earth, are constantly solicited by a force which tends to bring them
to its centre, and that they actually fall towards it when they are free
to move. This force is called gravity. Though the bodies be not free,
the effort of gravity is still sensible, and the resultant of all the
actions which it exercises upon their material points, constitutes what
is popularly called their _weight_. These weights are, therefore, forces
which may be compared together, and by means of machines may be made to
correspond or be counterpoised.

To discover whether two weights be equal, we must oppose them to each
other in a machine where they act in a similar manner, and then see if
they maintain an equilibrium; for example, we fulfil this condition if
we suspend them at the two extremities of a lever, supported at its
centre, and whose arms are equal. Such is the general idea of a balance.
The beam of a good balance ought to be a bar of well-tempered steel, of
such form as to secure perfect inflexibility under any load which may be
fitly applied to its extremities. Its arms should be quite equal in
weight and length upon each side of its point of suspension; and this
point should be placed in a vertical line over the centre of gravity;
and the less distant it is from it, the more delicate will be the
balance. Were it placed exactly in that centre, the beam would not
spontaneously recover the horizontal position when it was once removed
from it. To render its indications more readily commensurable, a slender
rod or needle is fixed to it, at right angles, in the line passing
through its centres of gravity and suspension. The point, or rather
edge, of suspension, is made of perfectly hard steel, and turns upon a
bed of the same. For common uses the arms of a balance can be made
sufficiently equal to give satisfactory results; but, for the more
refined purposes of science, that equality should never be presumed nor
trusted to; and, fortunately, exact weighing is quite independent of
that equality. To weigh a body is to determine how many times the weight
of that body contains another species of known weight, as of grains or
pounds, for example. In order to find it out, let us place the
substance, suppose a piece of gold, in the left hand scale of the
balance; counterpoise it with sand or shot in the other, till the index
needle be truly vertical, or stand in the middle of its scale, proving
the beam to be horizontal. Now remove gently the piece of gold, and
substitute in its place standard multiple weights of any graduation,
English or French, till the needle again resumes the vertical position,
or till its oscillations upon either side of the zero point are equal.
These weights will represent precisely the weight of the gold, since
they are placed in the same circumstances precisely with it, and make
the same equilibrium with the weight laid in the other scale.

This method of weighing is obviously independent of the unequal length
as well as the unequal weight of the arms of the beam. For its
perfection two requisites only are indispensable. The first is that the
points of suspension should be rigorously the same in the two
operations; for the power of a given weight to turn the beam being
unequal, according as we place it at different distances from the centre
of suspension, did that point vary in the two consecutive weighings, we
would require to employ, in the second, a different weight from that of
the piece of gold, in order to form an equilibrium with the sand or shot
originally put in the opposite scale; and as there is nothing to
indicate such inequality in the states of the beam, great errors would
result from it. The best mode of securing against such inequality is to
suspend the cords of the scales from sharp-edged rings, upon knife
edges, at the ends of the beam, both made of steel so hard tempered as
to be incapable of indentation. The second condition is, that the
balance should be very sensible, that is, when in equilibrium and
loaded, it may be disturbed, and its needle may oscillate, by the
smallest weight put into either of the scales. This sensibility depends
solely upon the centre or nail of suspension; and it will be the more
perfect the less friction there is between that _knife-edge_ surface and
the plane which supports it. Both should therefore be as hard and highly
polished as possible; and should not be suffered to press against each
other, except at the time of weighing. Every delicate balance of
moderate size, moreover, should be suspended within a glass case, to
protect it from the agitations of the air, and the corroding influence
of the weather. In some balances a ball is placed upon the index or
needle, (whether that index stand above or below the beam,) which may be
made to approach or recede from the beam by a fine-threaded screw, with
the effect of varying the centre of gravity relatively to the point of
suspension, and thereby increasing, at will, either the sensibility, or
the stability of the balance. The greater the length of the arms, the
less distant the centre of gravity is beneath the centre of suspension,
the better polished its central knife-edge of 30 deg., the lighter the whole
balance, and the less it is loaded; the greater will be its sensibility.
In all cases the arms must be quite inflexible. A balance made by
Ramsden for the Royal Society, is capable of weighing ten pounds, and
turns with one hundredth of a grain, which is the seven-millionth part
of the weight. In pointing out this balance to me one evening, Dr.
Wollaston told me it was so delicate, that Mr. Pond, then astronomer
royal, when making some observations with it, found its indications
affected by his relative position before it, although it was inclosed in
a glass case. When he stood opposite the right arm, that end of the beam
preponderated, in consequence of its becoming expanded by the radiation
of heat from his body; and when he stood opposite the left arm, he made
this preponderate in its turn. It is probable that Mr. Pond had
previously adjusted the centres of gravity and suspension so near to
each other as to give the balance its maximum sensibility, consistent
with stability. Were these centres made to coincide, the beam, when the
weights are equal, would rest in any position, and the addition of the
smallest weight would overset the balance, and place the beam in a
vertical position, from which it would have no tendency to return. The
sensibility in this case would be the greatest possible; but the other
two requisites of level and stability would be entirely lost. The case
would be even worse if the centre of gravity were higher than the centre
of suspension, as the balance when deranged, if free, would make a
revolution of no less than a semi-circle. A balance may be made by a
fraudulent dealer to weigh falsely though its arms be equal, provided
the suspension be as low as the centre of gravity, for he has only to
toss his tea, for instance, forcibly into one scale to cause 15 ounces
of it, or thereby, to counterpoise a pound weight in the other.
Inspectors of weights, &c. are not _au fait_ to this fruitful source of
fraud among hucksters.


BALSAMS. (_Baumes_, Fr. _Balsame_, Germ.) Are native compounds of
ethereal or essential oils, with resin, and frequently benzoic acid.
Most of them have the consistence of honey; but a few are solid, or
become so by keeping. They flow either spontaneously, or by incisions
made from trees and shrubs in tropical climates. They possess peculiar
powerful smells, aromatic hot tastes, but lose their odoriferous
properties by long exposure to the air. They are insoluble in water;
soluble, to a considerable degree, in ether; and completely in alcohol.
When distilled with water, ethereal oil comes over, and resin remains in
the retort.

1. BALSAMS WITH BENZOIC ACID:--

_Balsam of Peru_ is extracted from the _myroxylon peruiferum_, a tree
which grows in Peru, Mexico, &c.; sometimes by incision, and sometimes
by evaporating the decoction of the bark and branches of the tree. The
former kind is very rare, and is imported in the husk of the cocoa nut,
whence it is called balsam _en coque_. It is brown, transparent only in
thin layers, of the consistence of thick turpentine; an agreeable smell,
an acrid and bitter taste; formed of two matters, the one liquid, the
other granular, and somewhat crystalline. In 100 parts, it contains 12
of benzoic acid, 88 of resin, with traces of a volatile oil.

The second sort, the _black_ balsam of Peru, is much more common than
the preceding, translucent, of the consistence of well-boiled syrup,
very deep red-brown colour, an almost intolerably acrid and bitter
taste, and a stronger smell than the other balsam. Stoltze regards it as
formed of 69 parts of a peculiar oil, 20.7 of a resin, little soluble in
alcohol, of 6.4 of benzoic acid, of 0.6 of extractive matter, and 0.9 of
water.

From its high price, balsam of Peru is often adulterated with copaiba,
oil of turpentine, and olive oil. One thousand parts of good balsam,
should, by its benzoic acid, saturate 75 parts of crystallised carbonate
of soda. It is employed as a perfume for pomatums, tinctures, lozenges,
sealing-wax, and for chocolate and _liqueurs_, instead of vanilla, when
this happens to be very dear.

_Liquid amber_, _Storax or Styrax_, flows from the leaves and trunk of
the _liquid amber styraciflua_, a tree which grows in Virginia,
Louisiana, and Mexico. It is brownish ash-grey, of the consistence of
turpentine, dries up readily, smells agreeably, like benzoin, has a
bitterish, sharp, burning taste; is soluble in 4 parts of alcohol, and
contains only 1.4 per cent. of benzoic acid.

Balsam of Tolu flows from the trunk of the _myroxylon toluiferum_, a
tree which grows in South America; it is, when fresh, of the consistence
of turpentine, is brownish-red, dries into a yellowish or reddish
brittle resinous mass, of a smell like benzoin; is soluble in alcohol
and ether; affords, with water, benzoic acid.

_Chinese varnish_ flows from the bark of the _Augia sinensis_; it is a
greenish yellow turpentine-like substance, smells aromatic, tastes
strong and rather astringent, in thin layers dries soon into a smooth
shining lac, and consists of resin, ethereous oil, and benzoic acid. It
is soluble in alcohol and ether; and has been employed, immemorially, in
China, for lacquering and varnishing surfaces, either alone or coloured.

2. BALSAMS WITHOUT BENZOIC ACID:--

_Copaiva balsam_, balsam of copahu or capivi, is obtained from incisions
made in the trunk of the _Copaifera officinalis_, a tree which grows in
Brazil and Cayenne. It is pale yellow, middling liquid, clear
transparent, has a bitter, sharp, hot taste; a penetrating disagreeable
smell; a specific gravity of from 0.950 to 0.996. It dissolves in
absolute alcohol, partially in spirit of wine, forms with alkalis,
crystalline compounds. It consists of 45.59 ethereous oil, 52.75 of a
yellow brittle resin, and 1.66 of a brown viscid resin. The oil contains
no oxygen, has a composition like oil of turpentine, dissolves
caoutchouc (according to Durand), but becomes oxidised in the air, into
a peculiar species of resin. This balsam is used for making paper
transparent, for certain lacquers, and in medicine.

_Mecca balsam, or opobalsam_, is obtained both by incisions of, and by
boiling, the branches and leaves of the _Balsamodendron Gileadense_, a
shrub which grows in Arabia Felix, Lesser Asia and Egypt. When fresh it
is turbid, whitish, becomes, by degrees, transparent; yellow, thickish,
and eventually solid. It smells peculiar, but agreeable; tastes bitter
and spicy; does not dissolve completely in hot spirit of wine, and
contains 10 per cent. of ethereous oil, of the spec. grav. 0.876.

_Japan lac varnish_ flows from incisions in the trunk of the _Rhus
Vernix_ (_Melanorrhea usitata_) which is cultivated in Japan, and grows
wild in North America. The juice becomes black in the air; when
purified, dissolves in very little oil; and, mixed with colouring
matter, it constitutes the celebrated varnish of the Japanese.

For Benzoin and Turpentine, see these articles in their alphabetical
places.


BANDANNA. A style of calico printing, in which white or brightly
coloured spots are produced upon a red or dark ground. It seems to have
been practised from time immemorial in India, by binding up firmly with
thread, those points of the cloth which were to remain white or yellow,
while the rest of the surface was freely subjected to the dyeing
operations.

[Illustration: 96]

The European imitations have now far surpassed, in the beauty and
precision of the design, the oriental patterns; having called into
action the refined resources of mechanical and chemical science. The
general principles of producing bright figures upon dark grounds, are
explained in the article CALICO-PRINTING; but the peculiarities of the
Bandanna printing may be conveniently introduced here. In Brande's
Journal for July 1823, I described the Bandanna gallery of Messrs.
Monteith at Glasgow, which, when in full action some years ago, might be
reckoned the most magnificent and profitable printing apartment in the
world. The white spots were produced by a solution of chlorine, made to
percolate down through the Turkey red cotton cloth, in certain points,
defined and circumscribed by the pressure of hollow lead types in
plates, in a hydraulic press. _Fig._ 96., is an elevation of one press;
A, the top or entablature; B B, the cheeks or pillars; C, the upper
block for fastening the upper lead perforated pattern to; D, the lower
block to which the fellow pattern is affixed, and which moves up and
down with the piston of the press; E, the piston or ram; F, the sole or
base; G, the water-trough, for the discharged or spotted calico to fall
into; H, the small cistern, for the aqueous chlorine or liquor-meter,
with glass tubes for indicating the height of liquor inside of the
cistern; _e e_, glass stopcocks, for admitting the liquor into that
cistern from the general reservoir; _f f_, stopcocks for admitting water
to wash out the chlorine; _g g_, the pattern lead-plates, with screws
for setting the patterns parallel to each other; _m m_, projecting
angular pieces at each corner, perforated with a half-inch hole to
receive the four guide-pins rising from the lower plate, which serve to
secure accuracy of adjustment between the two faces of the lead pattern
plates; _h h_, two rollers which seize and pull through the discharged
pieces, and deliver them into the water-trough. To the left of D there
is a stopcock for filling the trough with water; _l_, is the waste tube
for chlorine liquor and water of washing. The contrivance for blowing a
stream of air across the cloth, through the pattern tubes, is not
represented in the figure.

Sixteen engines, similar to the above, each possessing the power of
pressing with several hundred tons, are arranged in one line, in
subdivisions of four; the spaces between each subdivision serving as
passages to allow the workmen to go readily from the front to the back
of the presses. Each occupies twenty-five feet, so that the total length
of the apartment is 100 feet.

To each press is attached a pair of patterns in lead, (or plates as they
are called,) the manner of forming which will be described in the
sequel. One of these plates is fixed to the upper block of the press.
This block is so contrived, that it rests upon a kind of universal
joint, which enables this plate to apply more exactly to the under
fellow-plate. The latter sits on the moveable part of the press,
commonly called the sill. When this is forced up, the two patterns close
on each other very nicely, by means of the guide-pins at the corners,
which are fitted with the utmost care.

The power which impels this great hydrostatic range is placed in a
separate apartment, called the machinery room. This machinery consists
of two press cylinders of a peculiar construction, having solid rams
accurately fitted to them. To each of these cylinders, three little
force-pumps, worked by a steam-engine, are connected.

The piston of the large cylinder is eight inches in diameter, and is
loaded with a top-weight of five tons. This piston can be made to rise
about two feet through a leather-stuffing or collar. The other cylinder
has a piston of only one inch in diameter, which is also loaded with a
top-weight of five tons. It is capable, like the other, of being raised
two feet through its collar.

Supposing the pistons to be at their lowest point, four of the six small
force-pumps are put in action by the steam-engine, two of them to raise
the large piston, and two the little one. In a short time, so much water
is injected into the cylinders, that the loaded pistons have arrived at
their highest points. They are now ready for working the hydrostatic
discharge-presses, the water pressure being conveyed from the one
apartment to the other, under ground, through strong copper tubes, of
small calibre.

Two valves are attached to each press, one opening a communication
between the large driving-cylinder and the cylinder of the press, the
other between the small driving-cylinder and the press. The function of
the first is simply to lift the under-block of the press into contact
with the upper-block; that of the second, is to give the requisite
compression to the cloth. A third valve is attached to the press, for
the purpose of discharging the water from its cylinder, when the press
is to be relaxed, in order to remove or draw through the cloth.

From twelve to fourteen pieces of cloth, previously dyed Turkey-red, are
stretched over each other, as parallel as possible, by a particular
machine. These parallel layers are then rolled round a wooden cylinder,
called by the workmen, a drum. This cylinder is now placed in its proper
situation at the back of the press. A portion of the fourteen layers of
cloth, equal to the area of the plates, is next drawn through between
them, by hooks attached to the two corners of the webs. On opening the
valve connected with the eight-inch driving-cylinder, the water enters
the cylinder of the press, and instantly lifts its lower block, so as to
apply the under plate with its cloth, close to the upper one. This valve
is then shut, and the other is opened. The pressure of five tons in the
one inch prime-cylinder, is now brought to bear on the piston of the
press, which is eight inches in diameter. The effective force here will,
therefore, be 5 tons x 8^{2} = 320 tons; the areas of cylinders being to
each other, as the squares of their respective diameters. The cloth is
thus condensed between the leaden pattern-plates, with a pressure of 320
tons, in a couple of seconds;--a splendid example of automatic art.

The next step, is to admit the blanching or discharging liquor, (aqueous
chlorine, obtained by adding sulphuric acid to solution of chloride of
lime,) to the cloth. This liquor is contained in a large cistern, in an
adjoining house, from which it is run at pleasure into small lead
cisterns H attached to the presses; which cisterns have graduated index
tubes, for regulating the quantity of liquor according to the pattern of
discharge. The stopcocks on the pipes and cisterns containing this
liquor, are all made of glass.

From the measure-cistern H, the liquor is allowed to flow into the
hollows in the upper lead-plate, whence it descends on the cloth, and
percolates through it, extracting in its passage the Turkey-red dye. The
liquor is finally conveyed into the waste pipe, from a groove in the
under block. As soon as the chlorine liquor has passed through, water is
admitted in a similar manner, to wash away the chlorine; otherwise, upon
relaxing the pressure, the outline of the figure discharged would become
ragged. The passage of the discharge liquor, as well as of the water
through the cloth, is occasionally aided by a pneumatic apparatus, or
blowing machine; consisting of a large gasometer, from which air
subjected to a moderate pressure, may be allowed to issue, and act in
the direction of the liquid, upon the folds of the cloth. By an
occasional twist of the air stopcock, the workman also can ensure the
equal distribution of the discharging liquor, over the whole excavations
in the upper plate. When the demand for goods is very brisk, the air
apparatus is much employed, as it enables the workman to double his
product.

The time requisite for completing the discharging process in the first
press is sufficient to enable the other three workmen to put the
remaining fifteen presses in play. The discharger proceeds now from
press to press, admits the liquor, the air, and the water; and is
followed at a proper interval by the assistants, who relax the press,
move forwards another square of the cloth, and then restore the
pressure. Whenever the sixteenth press has been liquored, &c., it is
time to open the first press. In this routine, about ten minutes are
employed; that is 224 handkerchiefs (16 x 14) are discharged every ten
minutes. The whole cloth is drawn successively forward, to be
successively treated in the above method.

When the cloth escapes from the press, it is passed between the two
rollers in front; from which it falls into a trough of water placed
below. It is finally carried off to the washing and bleaching
department, where the lustre of both the white and the red is
considerably brightened.

By the above arrangement of presses, 1600 pieces, consisting of 12 yards
each = 19,200 yards, are converted into Bandannas in the space of ten
hours, by the labour of four workmen.

The patterns, or plates, which are put into the presses to determine the
white figures on the cloth, are made of lead in the following way. A
trellis frame of cast-iron, one inch thick, with turned-up edges,
forming a trough rather larger than the intended lead pattern, is used
as the solid ground-work. Into this trough, a lead plate about one half
inch thick, is firmly fixed by screw nails passing up from below. To the
edges of this lead plate, the borders of the piece of sheet-lead are
soldered, which covers the whole outer surface of the iron frame. Thus a
strong trough is formed, one inch deep. The upright border gives at once
great strength to the plate, and serves to confine the liquor. A thin
sheet of lead is now laid on the thick lead-plate, in the manner of a
veneer on toilette-tables, and is soldered to it round the edges. Both
sheets must be made very smooth beforehand, by hammering them on a
smooth stone table, and then finishing with a plane: the surface of the
thin sheet (now attached), is to be covered with drawing paper, pasted
on, and upon this the pattern is drawn. It is now ready for the cutter.
The first thing which he does, is to fix down with brass pins all the
parts of the pattern which are to be left solid. He now proceeds with
the little tools generally used by block-cutters, which are fitted to
the different curvatures of the pattern, and he cuts perpendicularly
quite through the thin sheet. The pieces thus detached are easily lifted
out; and thus the channels are formed which design the white figures on
the red cloth. At the bottom of the channels, a sufficient number of
small perforations are made through the thicker sheet of lead, so that
the discharging liquor may have free ingress and egress. Thus, one plate
is finished; from which, an impression is to be taken by means of
printers' ink, on the paper pasted upon another plate. The impression is
taken in the hydrostatic press. Each pair of plates constitutes a set,
which may be put into the presses, and removed at pleasure.


BARBERRY. The root of this plant contains a yellow colouring matter,
which is soluble in water and alcohol, and is rendered brown by alkalis.
The solution is employed in the manufacture of Morocco leather.


BARILLA. A crude soda, procured by the incineration of the _salsola
soda_, a plant cultivated for this purpose in Spain, Sicily, Sardinia,
&c. Good barilla usually contains, according to my analysis, 20 per
cent. of real alkali, associated with muriates and sulphates, chiefly of
soda, some lime, and alumina, with very little sulphur. Caustic lyes
made from it, are used in the finishing process of the hard soap
manufacture. 125,068 cwts. were imported in 1835, of which only 5,807
were exported. The duty is 2_s._ per cwt. Of the above quantity, 64,174
came from Spain and the Balearic islands, 39,943 from the Canaries, and
20,432 from Italy and the Italian islands.


BARIUM, the metallic basis of Baryta.


BARK OF OAK, for tanning. Unfortunately, the Tables of Revenue published
by the Board of Trade, mix up this bark and the dyeing barks together,
and give the sum of the whole for 1835, at 826,566 cwts., of which only
2,264 were re-exported. The duty is 1_d._ per cwt. from British
possessions, and 8_d._ from other parts.


BARLEY (_Orge_, Fr. _Gerste_, Germ.) English barley is that with
two-rowed ears, or the _hordeum vulgare distichon_ of the botanists; the
Scotch beer or bigg, is the _hordeum vulgare hexastichon_. The latter
has two rows of ears, but 3 corns come from the same point, so that it
seems to be six-eared. The grains of bigg are smaller than those of
barley, and the husks thinner. The specific gravity of English barley
varies from 1.25 to 1.33; of bigg from 1.227 to 1.265; the weight of the
husk of barley is 1/6, that of bigg 2/9. 1000 parts of barley flour
contain, according to Einhof, 720 of starch, 56 sugar, 50 mucilage, 36.6
gluten, 12.3 vegetable albumen, 100 water, 2.5 phosphate of lime, 68
fibrous or ligneous matter. Sp. gravity of barley, is 1.235 by my
trials.


BARM. The yeasty top of fermenting beer. See BEER, DISTILLATION,
FERMENTATION.


BARYTA or BARYTES, one of the simple earths. It may be obtained most
easily by dissolving the native carbonate of barytes (Witherite) in
nitric acid, evaporating the neutral nitrate till crystals be formed,
draining and then calcining these in a covered platina crucible, at a
bright red heat. A less pure baryta may be obtained by igniting strongly
a mixture of the carbonate and charcoal, both in fine powder and
moistened. It is a grayish white earthy looking substance, fusible only
at the jet of the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe, has a sharp caustic taste,
corrodes the tongue and all animal matter, is poisonous even in small
quantities, has a very powerful alkaline reaction; a specific gravity of
4.0; becomes hot, and slakes violently when sprinkled with water,
falling into a fine white powder, called the hydrate of baryta, which
contains 10-1/2 per cent. of water, and dissolves in 10 parts of boiling
water. This solution lets fall abundant columnar crystals of hydrate of
baryta as it cools; but it still retains one twentieth its weight of
baryta, and is called baryta water. The above crystals contain 61 per
cent. of water, of which, by drying, they lose 50 parts. This hydrate
may be fused at a red heat without losing any more water. Of all the
bases, baryta has the strongest affinity for sulphuric acid, and is
hence employed either in the state of the above water, or in that of one
of its neutral salts, as the nitrate or muriate, to detect the presence,
and determine the quantity of that acid present in any soluble compound.
Its prime equivalent, according to Berzelius, is 956,880, oxygen being
100; or 76,676, hydrogen being 1,000. Native sulphate of baryta, or
heavy spar, is fraudulently used to adulterate white lead by the English
dealers to a shameful extent.


BASSORINE. A constituent part of a species of gum which comes from
Bassora, as also of gum tragacanth, and of some gum resins. It is
semi-transparent, difficult to pulverise, swells considerably in cold or
boiling water, and forms a thick mucilage without dissolving. Treated
with ten times its weight of nitric acid, it affords nearly 23 per cent.
of its weight of mucic acid, being much more than is obtainable from gum
arabic or cherry-tree gum. Bassorine is very soluble in water slightly
acidulated with nitric or muriatic acid. This principle is procured by
soaking gum Bassora in a great quantity of cold water, and in removing,
by a filter, all the soluble parts.


BATHS. (_Bains_, Fr. _Baden_, Germ.) Warm baths have lately come into
very general use, and they are justly considered as indispensably
necessary in all modern houses of any magnitude, as also in club-houses,
hotels, and hospitals. But the mode of constructing these baths, and of
obtaining the necessary supplies of hot and cold water, does not appear
to have undergone an improvement equal to the extension of their
employment.

The several points in regard to warm baths, are,

  1. The materials of which they are constructed.
  2. Their situation.
  3. The supply of cold water.
  4. The supply of hot water.
  5. Minor comforts and conveniences.

1. As to the materials of which they are constructed.--Of these the best
are slabs of polished marble, properly bedded with good water-tight
cement, in a seasoned wooden case, and neatly and carefully united at
their respective edges. These, when originally well constructed, form a
durable, pleasant, and agreeable-looking bath; but the expense is often
objectionable, and, in upper chambers, the weight may prove
inconvenient. If of white or veined marble, they are also apt to get
yellow or discoloured by frequent use, and cannot easily be cleansed; so
that large Dutch tiles, as they are called, or square pieces of white
earthenware, are sometimes substituted; which, however, are difficultly
kept water-tight; so that, upon the whole, marble is preferable.

Where there are reasons for excluding marble, copper or tinned iron
plate is the usual material resorted to. The former is most expensive in
the outfit, but far more durable than the latter, which is, moreover,
liable to leakage at the joints, unless most carefully made. Either the
one or the other should be well covered outside and inside, with several
coats of paint, which may then be marbled, or otherwise ornamented.

Wooden tubs, square or oblong, and oval, are sometimes used for warm
baths; and are cheap and convenient, but neither elegant nor cleanly.
The wood always contracts a mouldy smell; and the difficulty and
nuisance of keeping them water-tight, and preventing shrinkage, are such
as to exclude them from all except extemporaneous application.

2. As to the situation of the bath, or the part of the house in which it
is to be placed.--In hotels, and club-houses, this is a question easily
determined: several baths are usually here required, and each should
have annexed to it, a properly warmed dressing-room. Whether they are up
stairs or down stairs, is a question of convenience, but the basement
story, in which they are sometimes placed, should always be avoided;
there is a coldness and dampness belonging to it, in almost all
weathers, which is neither agreeable nor salubrious.

In hospitals, there should be at least two or three baths on each side
of the house, (the men's and women's), and the supply of hot water
should be ready at a moment's notice. The rooms in which the baths are
placed should be light and comparatively large and airy; and such
conveniences for getting into and out of the bath should be adopted, as
the sick are well known to require. The dimensions of these baths should
also be larger than usual.

In private houses, the fittest places for warm baths are dressing-rooms
annexed to the principal bed-rooms; or, where such convenience cannot be
obtained, a separate bath-room, connected with the dressing-room, and
always upon the bed-room floor. All newly-built houses should be
properly arranged for this purpose, and due attention should be paid to
the warming of the bath-room, which ought also to be properly
ventilated. A temperature of 70 deg. may be easily kept up in it, and
sufficient ventilation is absolutely requisite, to prevent the
deposition of moisture upon the walls and furniture.

The objection which formerly prevailed, in respect to the difficulty of
obtaining adequate supplies of water, in the upper rooms, has been
entirely obviated, by having cisterns at or near the top of the house;
and we would just hint that these should be so contrived, as to be
placed out of the reach of frost; a provision of the utmost importance
in every point of view, and very easily effected in a newly-built house,
though it unfortunately happens, that architects usually regard these
matters as trifles, and treat them with neglect, as indeed they do the
warming and ventilation of buildings generally.

3. The supply of water of proper quality and quantity, is a very
important point, as connected with the present subject. The water should
be soft, clean, and pure; and as free as possible from all substances
mechanically suspended in it. In many cases, it answers to dig a well
for the exclusive supply of a large house with water. In most parts of
London this may effectually be accomplished, at a comparatively moderate
expense; and, if the well be deep enough, the water will be abundant,
soft, and pellucid. The labour of forcing it by a pump to the top of the
house, is the only drawback; this, however, is very easily done by a
horse-engine, or there are people enough about town, glad to undertake
it at a shilling a day. I am led to these remarks by observing the
filthy state of the water usually supplied, at very extravagant rates,
by the water companies. It often partakes more of the appearance of
pea-soup than of the pure element; fills our cisterns and pipes with mud
and dirt, and, even when cleared by subsidence, is extremely
unpalatable. It deposits its nastiness in the pipes connected with warm
baths, and throws down a slippery deposit upon the bottom of the vessel
itself to such an extent, as often to preclude its being used, at least
as a luxury, which a clear and clean bath really is. This inconvenience
may, in some measure, be avoided, by suffering the water to throw down
its extraneous matters upon the bottom of the cistern, and drawing our
supplies from pipes a little above it; there will, however, always be
more or less deposit in the pipes themselves; and every time the water
runs into the cistern, the grouts are stirred up, and diffused through
its mass: this, from some cause or other, has lately become an
intolerable nuisance; and he who reflects upon the miscellaneous
contents of Thames water, will not have his appetite sharpened by a
draught of the Grand Junction beverage, nor feel reanimated and
refreshed by bathing in a compound so heterogeneous and unsavoury.

4. and 5. In public bathing establishments, where numerous and constant
baths are required, the simplest and most effective means of obtaining
hot water for their supply consists in drawing it directly into the
baths from a large boiler, placed somewhere above their level. This
boiler should be supplied with proper feeding-pipes and gauges; and,
above all things, its dimensions should be ample; it should be of
wrought iron or copper, except where sea water is used, in which case
the latter metal is sometimes objectionable. The hot water should enter
the bath by a pipe at least an inch and a half in diameter; and the cold
water by one of the same dimension, or somewhat larger, so that the bath
may not be long in filling. The relative proportions of the hot and cold
water are, of course, to be adjusted by a thermometer, and every bath
should have a two-inch waste-pipe, opening about two inches from the top
of the bath, and suffering the excess of water freely to run off; so
that when a person is immersed in the bath, or when the supplies of
water are accidentally left open, there may be no danger of an overflow.

Where there is a laundry in the upper story of the house, or other
convenient place for erecting a copper and its appurtenances, a plan
similar to the above may often be conveniently adopted in private
houses, for the supply of a bath upon the principal bed-room floor. An
attempt is sometimes made to place boilers behind the fires of
dressing-rooms, or otherwise to erect them in the room itself, for the
purpose of supplying warm water; but this plan is always objectionable,
from the complexity of the means by which the supply of water is
furnished to the boiler, and often dangerous from the flues becoming
choaked with soot, and taking fire. Steam is also apt, in such cases, to
escape in quantities into the room; so that it becomes necessary to
search for other methods of heating the bath; one or two of the least
objectionable of which I shall describe.

1. A contrivance of some ingenuity consists in suffering the water for
the supply of the bath to flow from a cistern above it, through a leaden
pipe of about one inch diameter, which is conducted into the kitchen or
other convenient place where a large boiler for the supply of hot water
is required. The bath-pipe is immersed in this boiler, in which it makes
many convolutions, and, again emerging, ascends to the bath. The
operation is simply this:--the cold water passing through the
convolutions of that part of the pipe which is immersed in the boiling
water, receives there sufficient heat for the purpose required, and is
delivered in that state by the ascending pipe into the bath, which is
also supplied with cold water and waste-pipes as usual. The pipe may be
of lead, as far as the descending and ascending parts are concerned, but
the portion forming the worm, or convolutions immersed in the boiler
should be copper, in order that the water within it may receive heat
without impediment.

This plan is economical only where a large boiler is constantly kept at
work in the lower part of the house; otherwise, the trouble and expense
of heating such a boiler, for the mere purpose of the bath, render it
unavailable. The worm-pipe is also apt to become furred, upon the
outside, by the deposition of the earthy impurities of the water in
which it is immersed; it then becomes a bad conductor of heat, is
cleansed with difficulty, and the plan is rendered ineffective. This
system, however, has been adopted, in some particular cases, with
satisfaction.

2. A much more simple, economical, and independent mode of heating a
warm bath, by a fire placed at a distance from it, is the following,
which is found to answer perfectly in private houses, as well as upon a
more extended scale in large establishments. It is certainly open to
some objections, but these are overbalanced by its advantages. A
waggon-shaped boiler, holding about six gallons of water, is properly
placed over a small furnace, in any convenient and safe part of the
house, as the kitchen, scullery, servants' hall, or wash-house. The bath
itself, of the usual dimensions and construction, is placed where it is
wanted, with a due supply of cold water from above. Two pipes issue from
within an inch of the bottom of the bath at its opposite extremities;
one at the head of the bath, about one inch, and the other at the foot,
an inch and one eighth in diameter. These tubes descend to the boiler,
the smaller one entering it at the bottom, and the larger one issuing
from its top.

Under these circumstances, supposing the pipes and boiler every where
perfectly tight, when the bath is filled, the water will descend into
and expel the air from the boiler, and completely fill it. Now, upon
making a gentle fire under the boiler, an ascending current of warm
water will necessarily pass upwards through the larger pipe which issues
from its top, and cold water will descend by the pipe which enters at
the bottom; and thus, by the establishment of currents, the whole mass
of water in the bath will become heated to the desired point; or, if
above it, the temperature may easily be lowered by the admixture of cold
water.

The advantages of this form of bath are numerous. The shorter the pipes
of communication the better, but they may extend forty or fifty feet
without any inconvenience beyond that of expense; so that there is no
obstacle to the bath being near the bed-room while the boiler is on the
basement story. There is but little time required for heating the bath;
the water in which may, if requisite, be raised to about 100 deg. in about
half an hour from the time of lighting the fire. The consumption of fuel
is also trifling.

The following are the chief disadvantages attendant upon this plan, and
the means of obviating them:--

It is necessary, when the water has acquired its proper temperature, to
withdraw the fire from the boiler, or not to use the bath immediately,
as it may go on acquiring some heat from the boiler, so that we may
become inconveniently hot in the bath. When, therefore, this bath is
used, we may proceed as follows:--heat the water in it an hour before it
is wanted, to about 100 deg., and then extinguish the fire. The water will
retain its temperature, or nearly so, for three or four hours,
especially if the bath be shut up with a cover; so that when about to
use it, cold water may be admitted till the temperature is lowered to
the required point, and thus all the above inconveniences are avoided.

Another disadvantage of this bath arises from too fierce a fire being
made under the boiler, so as to occasion the water to boil within it, a
circumstance which ought always to be carefully avoided. In that case,
the steam rising in the upper part of the boiler, and into the top pipe,
condenses there, and occasions violent concussions, the noise of which
often alarms the whole house, and leads to apprehensions of explosion,
which, however, is very unlikely to occur; but the concussions thus
produced injure the pipes, and may render them leaky: so that in regard
to these, and all other baths, &c., we may remark, that the pipes should
pass up and down in such parts of the house as will not be injured if
some leakage takes place; and under the bath itself should be a
sufficiently large leaden tray with a waste-pipe, to receive and carry
off any accidental drippings, which might injure the ceilings of the
rooms below. In all newly-built houses, two or three flues should be
left in proper places for the passage of ascending and descending
water-pipes; and these flues should in some way receive at their lower
part a little warm air in winter, to prevent the pipes freezing: the
same attention should also be paid to the situation of the cisterns of
water in houses, which should be kept within the house, and always
supplied with a very ample waste-pipe, to prevent the danger of
overflow. Cisterns thus properly placed, and carefully constructed,
should be supplied from the water-mains by pipes kept under ground, till
they enter the house, and not carried across the area, or immediately
under the pavement, where they are liable to freeze.

3. Baths are sometimes heated by steam, which has several advantages: it
may either be condensed directly into the water of the bath, or, if the
bath be of copper or tinned iron, it may be conducted into a casing upon
its outside, usually called a jacket; in the latter case there must be a
proper vent for the condensed water, and for the escape of air and waste
steam. Steam is also sometimes passed through a serpentine pipe, placed
at the bottom of the bath. But none of these methods are to be
recommended for adoption in private houses, and are only advisable in
hospitals, or establishments where steam boilers are worked for other
purposes than the mere heating of baths.

Many copper and tin baths have been lately constructed in London, with a
little furnace attached to one end, and surrounded with a case or
jacket, into which the water flows and circulates backwards and forwards
till the whole mass in the bath gets heated to the due degree. One of
the best of these is that constructed by Mr. Benham, of Wigmore Street.
The bath must be placed near the fire-grate, and the smoke-pipe of the
attached furnace be conducted up the chimney a certain way to secure a
sufficient draught to maintain combustion. The above bath, well managed,
heats the water from 50 deg. to 98 deg. in about 20 or 25 minutes, as I have
experimentally proved. When the proper temperature is attained, the fire
must of course be extinguished.


BDELLIUM. A gum resin, produced by an unknown plant which grows in
Persia and Arabia. It comes to us in yellowish or reddish pieces, smells
faintly, like myrrh, and consists of 59 resin, 9.2 gum, 30.6 bassorine,
and 1.2 ethereous oil.


BEER. (_Biere_, Fr. _Bier_, Germ.) The fermented infusion of malted
barley, flavoured with hops, constitutes the best species of beer; but
there are many beverages of inferior quality to which this name is
given, such as spruce beer, ginger beer, molasses beer, &c.; all of
which consist of a saccharine liquor, partially advanced into the vinous
fermentation, and flavoured with peculiar substances.

The ancients were acquainted with beer, and the Romans gave it the
appropriate name of _Cerevisia_ (quasi _Ceresia_), as being the product
of corn, the gift of Ceres. The most celebrated liquor of this kind in
the old time, was the _Pelusian_ potation, so called from the town where
it was prepared at the mouth of the Nile. Aristotle speaks of the
intoxication caused by beer; and Theophrastus very justly denominated it
the _wine of barley_. We may, indeed, infer from the notices found in
historians, that drinks analogous to our beer were in use among the
ancient Gauls, Germans, and in fact almost every people of our temperate
zone; and they are still the universal beverage in every land where the
vine is not an object of rustic husbandry.

The manufacture of beer, or the art of brewing, may be conveniently
considered under five heads:--

1. An examination of the natural productions which enter into its
composition; or of barley and hops.

2. The changes which barley must undergo to fit it for making beer; or
the processes of malting and mashing.

3. The formation of a proper wort from the mashed malt and hops.

4. The fermentation of that wort; and

5. The fining, ripening, and preservation of the beer.

I. _Of the materials._

1. Barley, wheat, maize, and several other kinds of corn are capable of
undergoing those fermentative changes, by which beer may be made; but
the first substance is by far the fittest. There are two species of
barley, the _hordeum vulgare_ or common barley, having two seeds
arranged in a row on its spikes; and the _hordeum hexastichon_, in which
three seeds spring from one point, so that its double row has apparently
six seeds. The former is the proper barley, and is much the larger sized
grain; the latter is little known in England, but is much cultivated in
Scotland under the name of _bear_ or _big_; being a hardy plant adapted
to a colder country. The finer the climate in which barley grows the
denser and larger its seed, and the thinner its husk; thus the Norfolk
and Suffolk barley is distinguished in these respects from that of
Aberdeenshire. Big is a less compact grain than barley; the weight of a
Winchester bushel (2150.42 cubic inches) of the former is only about 47
libs, while that of a bushel of the latter is nearly 51 libs. Their
constituents, however, bear much the same proportion to each other.

The quality of barley is proved not only by its density when dry, but by
the increase of volume which it acquires when steeped in water. Thus,

        100 measures of average English barley thereby swell into 124.
        100   --     of   --    Scotch ditto,                     121.
        100   --     of   --      --   bigg or bear,              118.
  Nay,  100 of very fine Suffolk barley have swollen into         183.
  While 100 of an inferior Scotch bigg became no more than        109.

This circumstance indicates so nearly the probable yield of malt, that
it is carefully attended to by the officers of excise, who gauge the
steep cistern, and levy their duty in conformity with the largest
volume, 100 pounds of good barley become almost one half heavier by the
absorption of moisture; and weigh upon an average 147 pounds; the best
of course taking up most water.

By chemical analysis barley flour seems to consist of 67.18 parts of
hordeine, or starch and gluten intimately combined, 7.29 of vegetable
fibre, 1.15 of coagulated albumen, 3.52 parts of gluten, 5.21 of sugar,
4.62 of gum, 0.24 of phosphate of lime, and 9.37 of water. The loss
amounted to 1.42. To these principles should be added a peculiar
volatile oil of a concrete nature, which is obtained during the process
of distilling fermented malt wash. (See WHISKEY.) It may also be
extracted from barley flour, by the solvent action of alcohol; and never
amounts to more than a few parts in the thousand. The husk also contains
some of that fetid oil. Proust thought that he had discovered in barley
a peculiar principle, to which he gave the name of _hordeine_, and which
he separated from starch by the action of both cold and boiling water.
He found that by treating barley meal successively with water, he
obtained from 89 to 90 parts of a farinaceous substance, composed of
from 32 to 33 of starch, and from 57 to 58 of _hordeine_. Einhof
obtained from barley seeds, 70.05 of flour, 18.75 of husks or bran, and
11.20 of water.

According to Proust hordeine is a yellowish powder, not unlike fine
saw-dust. It contains no azote, for it affords no ammonia by
distillation, and is therefore very dissimilar to gluten. In the
germination of barley, which constitutes the process of malting, the
proportion of hordeine is greatly diminished by its conversion into
sugar and starch. Other chemists suppose that the _hordeine_ of Proust
is merely a mixture of the bran of the barley with starch and gluten. It
is obvious that the subject stands in need of new chemical researches.
In barley the husk constitutes from one fourth to one fifth of the whole
weight; in oats it constitutes one third; and in wheat, one tenth. From
the analysis of barley flour recently made, it appears to consist in
1000 parts: of water, 100; albumine, 22.3; sugar, 56; gum or mucilage,
50; gluten, 37.6; starch, 720; phosphate of lime, 2.5.

2. The hop, _humulus lupulus_, the female flowers of the plant. Ives
first directed attention to a yellow pulverulent substance which invests
the scales of the catkins, amounting to about one eighth of their
weight; and referred to it the valuable properties which hops impart to
beer. We may obtain this substance by drying the hops at a temperature
of 86 deg. F., introducing them into a coarse canvass bag, and shaking it so
that the yellow powder shall pass through the pores of the canvass. This
powder bears some resemblance to lycopodium. Of the 13 parts in 100 of
this powder, 4 parts are foreign matters, derived from the scales of the
cones; leaving 9 parts of a peculiar granular substance. When distilled
with water, this substance affords two per cent. of its weight (2/10 for
100 times the weight of hops) of a volatile colourless oil, to which the
plant owes its peculiar aroma. This oil dissolves in water in
considerable quantity. It appears to contain sulphur (for it blackens
solutions of silver), and also acetate of ammonia. No less than 65 per
cent. of the yellow dust is soluble in alcohol. This solution, treated
with water and distilled, leaves a resin, which amounts to 52.5 per
cent. It has no bitter taste, and is soluble in alcohol and ether. The
watery solution from which the resin was separated contains the bitter
substance which has been called _lupuline_ by Payen and Chevallier,
mixed with a little tannin and malic acid. To obtain this in a state of
purity, the free acid must be saturated with lime, the solution
evaporated to dryness, and the residuum must be treated with ether,
which removes a little resin; after which the _lupuline_ is dissolved
out by alcohol, which leaves the malate of lime. On evaporating away the
alcohol, the lupuline remains, weighing from 8.3 to 12.5 per cent. It is
sometimes white, or slightly yellowish, and opaque, sometimes orange
yellow, and transparent. At ordinary temperatures it is inodorous, but
when heated strongly it emits the smell of hops. It possesses the
characteristic taste and bitterness of the hop. Water dissolves it only
in the proportion of 5 per cent., but it thereby acquires a pale yellow
colour. Lupuline is neither acid nor alkaline; it is acted upon neither
by the dilute acids nor alkalies, nor by the solutions of the metallic
salts: it is quite soluble in alcohol, but hardly in ether. It contains
apparently no azote, for it affords no ammonia by destructive
distillation; but only an empyreumatic oil.

The yellow dust of hops contains, moreover, traces of a fatty matter,
gum, a small quantity of an azotised substance, and several saline
combinations in minute quantity. Boiling water dissolves from 19 to 31
per cent., of the contents of the dust, of which a large proportion is
resin. Ives thought that the scales of the catkins of hops, when freed
from the yellow powder, contained no principles analogous to it; but
Payen and Chevallier have proved the contrary. The cones of hop give up
to boiling alcohol 36 per cent. of soluble matter; while the same cones,
stripped of their yellow powder, yield only 26 per cent.; and further,
these chemists found the same principles in the different parts of the
hop, but in different proportions.

The packing of the hop catkins or cones is one of the most important
operations towards the preservation of this plant; and is probably the
cause of the enormous difference in value between the English and French
hops after a few years' keeping. The former, at the end of six years,
possess still great value, and may be sold as an article only two or
three years old; while the latter have lost the greater part of their
value in three years, and are no more saleable at the end of four. In
France, it is packed merely by tramping it with the feet in sacks. Under
this slight pressure, large interstitial spaces are left amid the mass
of the hops, through which the air freely circulates, carrying off the
essential oil, and oxygenating some of the other proximate principles,
so as to render them inert. By the English method, on the contrary, the
hops, after being well rammed into strong sacks hung in frames, are next
subjected to the action of a hydraulic press. The valuable yellow powder
thus inclosed on every side by innumerable compact scales, is completely
screened from the contact of the atmosphere, and from all its
vicissitudes of humidity. Its essential oil, in particular the basis of
its flavour, is preserved without decay.

According to the experiments of Chevallier and Payen upon the hops of
England, Flanders, the Netherlands, and the department of the Vosges,
those of the county of Kent afforded the largest cones, and were most
productive in useful secreted and soluble matters. Next to them were the
hops of Alost.

The best hops have a golden yellow colour, large cones, an agreeable
aroma; when rubbed between the hands, they leave yellow traces,
powerfully odoriferous, without any broken portions of the plant, such
as leaves, stems, and scaly fragments. When alcohol is digested on good
hops, from 9 to 12 per cent. of soluble yellow matter may be obtained by
evaporating it to dryness. This is a good test of their quality.

The best-flavoured and palest hops are packed in sacks of fine canvass,
which are called pockets, and weigh about 1-1/2 cwt. each. These are
bought by the ale brewer. The stronger-flavoured and darker-coloured
hops are packed in bags of a very coarse texture like door-mats, called
hop bags: these contain generally about 3 cwt., and are sold to the
porter and beer brewers. After the end of a year or two, hops are
reckoned to have lost much of their marketable value, and are then sold
to the second-rate porter brewers, under the name of old hops. The
finest hops are grown in the neighbourhood of Canterbury; but those of
Worcester have an agreeable mildness of flavour, greatly admired by many
ale drinkers. When the bitter and aromatic principles disappear, the
hops are no better than so much chaff; therefore, an accurate chemical
criterion of their principles would be a great benefit to the brewer.

II. _Malting._--This process consists of three successive operations;
the steeping; the couching, sweating, and flooring; and the kiln-drying.

The _steeping_ is performed in large cisterns made of wood or stone,
which being filled with clear water up to a certain height, a quantity
of barley is shot into them, and well stirred about with rakes. The good
grain is heavy, and subsides; the lighter grains, which float on the
surface, are damaged, and should be skimmed off; for they would injure
the quality of the malt, and the flavour of the beer made with it. They
seldom amount to more than two per cent. More barley is successively
emptied into the steep cistern, till the water stands only a few inches,
about five, above its surface; when this is levelled very carefully, and
every light seed is removed. The steep lasts from forty to sixty hours,
according to circumstances; new barley requiring a longer period than
old, and bigg requiring much less time than barley.

During this steep, some carbonic acid is evolved from the grains, and
combines with the water, which, at the same time, acquires a yellowish
tinge, and a strawy smell, from dissolving some of the extractive matter
of the barley husks. The grain imbibes about one half its weight of
water, and increases in size by about one-fifth. By losing this extract,
the husk becomes about one seventieth lighter in weight, and paler in
colour.

The duration of the steep depends, in some measure, upon the temperature
of the air, and is shorter in summer than in winter. In general from 40
to 48 hours will be found sufficient for sound dry grain. Steeping has
for its object to expand the farina of the barley with humidity, and
thus prepare the seed for germination, in the same way as the moisture
of the earth prepares for the growth of the radicle and plumula in seed
sown in it. Too long continuance in the steep is injurious; because it
prevents the germination at the proper time, and thereby exhausts a
portion of the vegetative power: it causes also an abstraction of
saccharine matter by the water. The maceration is known to be complete
when the grain may be easily transfixed with a needle, and is swollen to
its full size. The following is reckoned a good test:--If a barley-corn,
when pressed between the thumb and fingers, continues entire in its
husk, it is not sufficiently steeped; but if it sheds its flour upon the
fingers, it is ready. When the substance exudes in the form of a milky
juice, the steep has been too long continued, and the barley is spoiled
for germination.

In warm weather it sometimes happens that the water becomes acescent
before the grain is thoroughly swelled. This accident, which is manifest
to the taste and smell, must be immediately obviated by drawing off the
foul water through the tap at the bottom of the cistern, and replacing
it with fresh cold water. It does no harm to renew it two or three times
at one steep.

The _couch_.--The water being drawn off, and occasionally a fresh
quantity passed through, to wash away any slimy matter which may have
been generated in warm weather, the barley is now laid upon the couch
floor of stone flags, in square heaps from 12 to 16 inches high, and
left in that position for 24 hours. At this period, the bulk of the
grain being the greatest, it may be gauged by the revenue officers if
they think fit. The moisture now leaves the surface of the barley so
completely, that it imparts no dampness to the hand. By degrees,
however, it becomes warm; the temperature rising 10 deg. above the
atmosphere, while an agreeable fruity smell is evolved. At this time, if
the hand be thrust into the heap, it not only feels warm, but it gets
bedewed with moisture. At this sweating stage, the germination begins;
the fibrils of the radicle first sprout forth from the tip of every
grain, and a white elevation appears, that soon separates into three or
more radicles, which grow rapidly larger. About a day after this
appearance, the plumula peeps forth at the same point, proceeding thence
beneath the husk to the other end of the seed, in the form of a green
leaflet.

The greatest heat of the couch is usually about 96 hours after the
barley has been taken out of the steep. In consequence, the radicles
tend to increase in length with very great rapidity, and must be checked
by artificial means, which constitute the chief art of the maltster. He
now begins to spread the barley thinner on the floor, and turns it over
several times in the course of a day, bringing the portions of the
interior into the exterior surface. The depth, which was originally 15
or 16 inches, is lowered a little at every turning over, till it be
brought eventually down to three or four inches. Two turnings a day are
generally required. At this period of spreading or flooring, the
temperature in England is about 62 deg., and in Scotland 5 or 6 degrees
lower.

About a day after the radicles appear, the rudiments of the stem, or of
the plumula, sprout forth, called by the English maltsters the
_acrospire_. It issues from the same end of the seed as the radicle, but
turns round, and proceeds within the husk towards the other end, and
would there come forth as a green leaf, were its progress not arrested.
The malting, however, is complete before the acrospire becomes a leaf.

The barley couch absorbs oxygen and emits carbonic acid, just as animals
do in breathing, but to a very limited extent; for the grain loses only
three per cent. of its weight upon the malt floor, and a part of this
loss is due to waste particles. As the acrospire creeps along the
surface of the seed, the farina within undergoes a remarkable
alteration. The gluten and mucilage disappear, in a great measure, the
colour becomes whiter, and the substance becomes so friable that it
crumbles into meal between the fingers. This is the great purpose of
malting, and it is known to be accomplished when the plumula or
acrospire has approached the end of the seed. Now the further growth
must be completely stopped. Fourteen days may be reckoned the usual
duration of the germinating stage of the malting operations in England;
but in Scotland, where the temperature of the couch is lower, eighteen
days or even twenty-one, are sometimes required. The shorter the period
within the above limits, the more advantageous is the process to the
maltster, as he can turn over his capital the sooner, and his malt is
also somewhat the better. Bigg is more rapid in its germination than
barley, and requires to be still more carefully watched. In dry weather
it is sometimes necessary to water the barley upon the couch.

Occasionally the odour disengaged from the couch is offensive,
resembling that of rotten apples. This is a bad prognostic, indicating
either that the barley was of bad quality, or that the workmen, through
careless shovelling, have crushed a number of the grains in turning them
over. Hence when the weather causes too quick germination, it is better
to check it by spreading the heap out thinner than by turning it too
frequently over. On comparing different samples of barley, we shall find
that the best develope the germ or acrospire quicker than the radicles,
and thus occasion a greater production of the saccharine principle; this
conversion advances along with the acrospire, and keeps pace with it, so
that the portion of the seed to which it has not reached, is still in
its unaltered starchy state. It is never complete for any single
barleycorn till the acrospire has come to the end opposite to that from
which it sprung; hence one part of the corn may be sugary, while the
other is still insipid. If the grain were allowed to vegetate beyond
this term, the radicles being fully one third of an inch long, the
future stem would become visibly green in the exterior; it would shoot
forth rapidly, the interior of the grain would become milky, with a
complete exhaustion of all its useful constituents, and nothing but the
husk would remain.

In France, the brewers, who generally malt their barley themselves,
seldom leave it on the couch more than 8 or 10 days, which, even taking
into account the warmer climate of their country, is certainly too short
a period, and hence they make inferior wort to the English brewer, from
the same quantity of malt.

At the end of the germination, the radicles have become 1-1/2 longer
than the barley, and are contorted so that the corns hook into one
another, but the acrospire is just beginning to push through. A moderate
temperature of the air is best adapted to malting; therefore it cannot
be carried on well during the heat of summer or the colds of winter.
Malt-floors should be placed in substantial thick-walled buildings,
without access of the sun, so that a uniform temperature of 59 deg. or 60 deg.
may prevail inside. Some recommend them to be sunk a little under the
surface of the ground, if the situation be dry.

During germination a remarkable change has taken place in the substance
of the grain. The glutinous constituent has almost entirely disappeared,
and is supposed to have passed into the matter of the radicles, while a
portion of the starch is converted into sugar and mucilage. The change
is similar to what starch undergoes when dissolved in water, and
digested in a heat of about 160 deg.F. along with a little gluten. The
thick paste becomes gradually liquid, transparent, and sweet tasted, and
the solution contains now, sugar and gum, mixed with some unaltered
starch. The gluten suffers a change at the same time, and becomes
acescent, so that only a certain quantity of starch can be thus
converted by a quantity of gluten. By the artificial growth upon the
malt-floor, all the gluten and albumen present in barley are not
decomposed, and only about one half of the starch is converted into
sugar; the other half, by a continuance of the germination, would only
go to the growth of the roots and stems of the plant; but it receives
its nearly complete conversion into sugar without any notable waste of
substance in the brewer's operation of mashing.

The _kiln-drying_.--When the malt has become perceptibly dry to the hand
upon the floor, it is taken to the kiln, and dried hard with artificial
heat, to stop all further growth, and enable it to be kept, without
change, for future use, at any time. The malt-kiln, which is
particularly described in the next page, is a round or a square chamber,
covered with perforated plates of cast iron, whose area is heated by a
stove or furnace, so that not merely the plates on which the malt is
laid are warmed, but the air which passes up through the stratum of malt
itself, with the effect of carrying off very rapidly the moisture from
the grains. The layer of malt should be about 3 or 4 inches thick, and
evenly spread, and its heat should be steadily kept at from the 90th to
the 100th degree of Fahrenheit's scale, till the moisture be mostly
exhaled from it. During this time the malt must be turned over at first
frequently, and latterly every three or four hours. When it is nearly
dry, its temperature should be raised to from 145 deg. to 165 deg.F., and it
must be kept at this heat till it has assumed the desired shade of
colour, which is commonly a brownish-yellow or a yellowish-brown. The
fire is now allowed to die out, and the malt is left on the plates till
it has become completely cool; a result promoted by the stream of cool
air, which now rises up through the bars of the grate; or the thoroughly
dry browned malt may, by damping the fire, be taken hot from the plates,
and cooled upon the floor of an adjoining apartment. The prepared malt
must be kept in a dry loft, where it can be occasionally turned over
till it is used. The period of kiln-drying should not be hurried. Many
persons employ two days in this operation.

According to the colour and the degree of drying, malt is distributed
into three sorts; pale, yellow, and brown. The first is produced when
the highest heat to which it has been subjected is from 90 deg. to 100 deg. F.;
the amber yellow, when it has suffered a heat of 122 deg.; and the brown
when it has been treated as above described. The black malt used by the
porter brewer to colour his beer, has suffered a much higher heat, and
is partially charred. The temperature of the kiln should, in all cases,
be most gradually raised, and most equably maintained. If the heat be
too great at the beginning, the husk gets hard dried, and hinders the
evaporation of the water from the interior substance; and should the
interior be dried by a stronger heat, the husk will probably split, and
the farina become of a horny texture, very refractory in the mash-tun.
In general, it is preferable to brown malt, rather by a long-continued
moderate heat, than by a more violent heat of shorter duration, which is
apt to carbonise a portion of the mucilaginous sugar, and to damage the
article. In this way, the sweet is sometimes converted into a bitter
principle.

During the kiln-drying, the roots and acrospire of the barley become
brittle, and fall off; and are separated by a wire sieve whose meshes
are too small to allow the malt itself to pass through.

A quantity of good barley, which weighs 100 pounds, being judiciously
malted, will weigh, after drying and sifting, 80 pounds. Since the raw
grain, dried by itself at the same temperature as the malt, would lose
12 per cent. of its weight in water, the malt process dissipates out of
these remaining 88 pounds, only 8 pounds, or 8 per cent. of the raw
barley. This loss consists of--

  1-1/2 per cent. dissolved out in the steep water,
  3       --      dissipated in the kiln,
  3       --      by the falling of the fibrils,
    1/2   --      of waste.

The bulk of good malt exceeds that of the barley from which it was made,
by about 8 or 9 per cent.

The operation of kiln-drying is not confined to the mere expulsion of
the moisture from the germinated seeds; but it serves to convert into
sugar a portion of the starch which remained unchanged, and that in a
twofold way; first, by the action of the gluten upon the fecula at an
elevated temperature, as also by the species of roasting which the
starch undergoes, and which renders it of a gummy nature. (See STARCH.)
We shall have a proof of this explanation, if we dry one portion of the
malt in a naturally dry atmosphere, and another in a moderately warm
kiln; the former will yield less saccharine extract than the latter.
Moreover, the kiln-dried malt has a peculiar, agreeable, and faintly
burned taste, probably from a small portion of empyreumatic oil formed
in the husk, and which not only imparts its flavour to the beer, but
also contributes to its preservation. It is therefore obvious, that the
skilful preparation of the malt must have the greatest influence both on
the quantity and quality of the worts to be made from it. If the
germination be pushed too far, a part of the extractible matter is
wasted; if it has not advanced far enough, the malt will be too raw, and
too much of its substance will remain as an insoluble starch; if it is
too highly kiln-dried, a portion of its sugar will be caramelised, and
become bitter; and if the sweating was imperfect or irregular, much of
the barley may be rendered lumpy and useless. Good malt is
distinguishable by the following characters:--

The grain is round and full, breaks freely between the teeth, and has a
sweetish taste, an agreeable smell, and is full of a soft flour from end
to end. It affords no unpleasant flavour on being chewed; it is not
hard, so that when drawn along an oaken table across the fibres, it
leaves a white streak, like chalk. It swims upon water, while unmalted
barley sinks in it. Since the quality of the malt depends much on that
of the barley, the same sort only should be used for one malting. New
barley germinates quicker than old, which is more dried up; a couch of a
mixture of the two would be irregular, and difficult to regulate.

[Illustration: 97 98 99 100]

_Description of the malt kiln._--_Figs._ 97, 98, 99, 100. exhibit the
construction of a well-contrived _malt kiln_. _Fig._ 97. is the ground
plan; _fig._ 98. is the vertical section; and _figs._ 99. and 100., a
horizontal and vertical section in the line of the malt-plates. The same
letters denote the same parts in each of the figures. A cast-iron
cupola-shaped oven is supported in the middle, upon a wall of brickwork
four feet high; and beneath it, are the grate and its ash-pit. The smoke
passes off through two equi-distant pipes into the chimney. The oven is
surrounded with four pillars, on whose top a stone lintel is laid: _a_
is the grate, 9 inches below the sole of the oven _b_; _c c c c_ are the
four nine-inch strong pillars of brickwork which bear the lintel _m_; _d
d d d d d_ are strong nine-inch pillars, which support the girder and
joists upon which perforated plates repose; _e_ denotes a vaulted arch
on each of the four sides of the oven; _f_ is the space between the kiln
and the side arch, into which a workman may enter, to inspect and clean
the kiln; _g g_, the walls on either side of the kiln, upon which the
arches rest, _h_, the space for the ashes to fall; _k_, the fire-door of
the kiln; _l l_, junction-pieces to connect the pipes _r r_ with the
kiln; the mode of attaching them is shown in _fig._ 99. These
smoke-pipes lie about three feet under the iron plates, and at the same
distance from the side walls; they are supported upon iron props, which
are made fast to the arches. In _fig._ 98., _u_ shows their section; at
_s s_, _fig._ 99., they enter the chimney, which is provided with two
register or damper plates, to regulate the draught through the pipes.
These registers are represented by _t t_, _fig._ 100., which shows a
perpendicular section of the chimney. _m_, _fig._ 98., is the lintel
which causes the heated air to spread laterally instead of ascending in
one mass in the middle, and prevents any combustible particles from
falling upon the iron cupola. _n n_ are the main girders of iron for the
iron beams _o o_, upon which the perforated plates _p_ lie; _q_, _fig._
98., is the vapour pipe in the middle of the roof, which allows the
steam of the drying malt to escape. The kiln may be heated either with
coal or wood.

The size of this kiln is about 20 feet square; but it may be made
proportionally either smaller or greater. The perforated floor should be
large enough to receive the contents of one steep or couch.

The perforated plate might be conveniently heated by steam pipes, laid
zig-zag, or in parallel lines under it; or a wire-gauze web might be
stretched upon such pipes. The wooden joists of a common floor would
answer perfectly to support this steam-range, and the heat of the pipes
would cause an abundant circulation of air. For drying the pale malt of
the ale brewer, this plan is particularly well adapted.

The kiln-dried malt is sometimes ground between stones in a common corn
mill, like oatmeal; but it is more generally crushed between iron
rollers, at least for the purposes of the London brewers.

[Illustration: 101 102]

The _crushing mill_.--The cylinder malt-mill is constructed as shown in
_fig._ 101, 102. I is the sloping-trough, by which the malt is let down
from its bin or floor to the hopper A of the mill, whence it is
progressively shaken in between the rollers B D. The rollers are of
iron, truly cylindrical, and their ends rest in bearers of hard brass,
fitted into the side frames of iron. A screw E goes through the upright,
and serves to force the bearer of the one roller towards that of the
other, so as to bring them closer together when the crushing effect is
to be increased. G is the square end of the axis, by which one of the
rollers may be turned either by the hand or by power; the other derives
its rotatory motion from a pair of equal-toothed wheels H, which are
fitted to the other end of the axes of the rollers. _d_ is a catch which
works into the teeth of a ratchet-wheel on the end of one of the rollers
(not shown in this view). The lever _c_ strikes the trough _b_ at the
bottom of the hopper, and gives it the shaking motion for discharging
the malt between the rollers, from the slide sluice _a_. _e e_, _fig._
101., are scraper-plates of sheet iron, the edges of which press by a
weight against the surfaces of the rollers, and keep them clean.

Instead of the cylinders, some employ a crushing mill of a
conical-grooved form like a coffee mill, upon a large scale. (_See the
general plan, infra._)

The _mashing and boiling_.--Mashing is the operation by which the wort
is extracted, or eliminated from the malt, and whereby a
saccharo-mucilaginous extract is made from it. The malt should not in
general be ground into a fine meal, for in that case it would be apt to
form a cohesive paste with hot water, or to set, as it is called, and to
be difficult to drain. In crushed malt, the husk remains nearly entire,
and thus helps to keep the farinaceous particles open and porous to the
action of the water. The bulk of the crushed malt is about one-fifth
greater than that of the whole, or one bushel of malt gives a bushel and
a quarter of crushed malt. This is frequently allowed to lie a few days
in a cool place, in order that it may attract moisture from the air,
which it does very readily by its hygrometric power. Thus, the
farinaceous substance which had been indurated in the kiln, becomes
soft, spongy, and fit for the ensuing process of watery extraction.

Mashing has not for its object merely to dissolve the sugar and gum
already present in the malt, but also to convert into a sweet mucilage
the starch which had remained unchanged during the germination. We have
already stated that starch, mixed with gluten, and digested for some
time with hot water, becomes a species of sugar. This conversion takes
place in the mash-tun. The malted barley contains not only a portion of
gluten, but _diastase_ more than sufficient to convert the starch
contained in it, by this means, into sugar.

The researches of Payen and Persoz show, that the mucilage formed by the
reaction of malt upon starch, may either be converted into sugar, or be
made into permanent gum, according to the temperature of the water in
which the materials are digested. We take of pale barley malt, ground
fine, from 6 to 10 parts, and 100 parts of starch; we heat, by means of
a water-bath, 400 parts of water in a copper, to about 80 deg.F.; we then
stir in the malt, and increase the heat to 140 deg.F., when we add the
starch, and stir well together. We next raise the temperature to 158 deg.,
and endeavour to maintain it constantly at that point, or at least to
keep it within the limits of 167 deg. on the one side, and 158 deg. on the
other. At the end of 20 or 30 minutes, the original milky and pasty
solution becomes thinner, and soon after as fluid nearly as water. This
is the moment in which the starch is converted into gum, or into that
substance which the French chemists call _dextrine_, from its power of
polarising light to the right hand, whereas common gum does it to the
left. If this merely mucilaginous solution, which seems to be a mixture
of gum with a little liquid starch and sugar, be suitably evaporated, it
may serve for various purposes in the arts to which gum is applied, but
with this view, it must be quickly raised to the boiling point, to
prevent the farther operation of the malt upon it. If we wish, on the
contrary, however, to promote the saccharine fermentation, for the
formation of beer, we must maintain the temperature at between 158 deg. and
167 deg. for three or four hours, when the greatest part of the gum will
have passed into sugar, and by evaporation of the liquid at the same
temperature, a starch syrup may be obtained like that procured by the
action of sulphuric acid upon starch. The substance, which operates in
the formation of sugar, or is the peculiar ferment of the sugar
fermentation, may be considered as a residuum of the gluten or vegetable
albumen in the germinating grain: it is reckoned by Payen and Persoz, a
new proximate principle called _diastase_, which is formed during
malting, in the grains of barley, oats, and wheat, and may be separated
in a pure state, if we moisten the malt flour for a few minutes in cold
water, press it out strongly, filter the solution, and heat the clear
liquid in a water bath, to the temperature of 158 deg. The greater part of
that albuminous azotised substance is thus coagulated, and is to be
separated by a fresh filtration; after which, the clear liquid is to be
treated with alcohol, when a flocky precipitate appears, which is
_diastase_. To purify it still further, especially from the azotised
matter, we should dissolve it in water, and precipitate again with
alcohol. When dried at a low temperature, it appears as a solid white
substance, which contains no azote; is insoluble in alcohol, but
dissolves in water and proof spirit. Its solution is neutral and
tasteless; when left to itself, it changes with greater or less rapidity
according to the temperature, and becomes sour at a temperature of from
149 deg. to 167 deg. It has the property of converting starch into gum
(dextrine) and sugar, and indeed, when sufficiently pure, with such
energy that one part of it disposes 2000 parts of dry starch to that
change, but it operates the quicker the greater its quantity. Whenever
the solution of diastase with starch or with dextrine is heated to the
boiling point, it loses the sugar-fermenting property. One hundred parts
of well-malted starch appear to contain about one part of this
substance.

We can now understand the theory of malting, and the limits between
which the temperature of the liquor, ought to be maintained in this
operation; namely, the range between 157 deg. and 160 deg.F. It has been
ascertained as a principle in mashing, that the best and soundest
extract of the malt, is to be obtained, first of all, by beginning to
work with water at the lowest of these heats, and to conclude the mash
with water at the highest. Secondly, not to operate the extraction at
once with the whole of the water that is to be employed; but with
separate portions and by degrees. The first portion is added with the
view of penetrating equally the crushed malt, and of extracting the
already formed sugar; the next for effecting the sugar fermentation by
the action of the diastase. By this means also, the starch is not
allowed to run into a cohesive paste, and the extract is more easily
drained from the poorer mass, and comes off in the form of a nearly
limpid wort. The thicker moreover, or the less diluted the mash is, so
much the easier is the wort fined in the boiler or copper by the
coagulation of the albuminous matter: these principles illustrate, in
every condition, the true mode of conducting the mashing process; but
different kinds of malt require a different treatment. Pale and slightly
kilned malt requires a somewhat lower heat than malt highly kilned,
because the former has more undecomposed starch, and is more ready to
become pasty. The former also, for the same reason, needs a more
leisurely infusion than the latter, for its conversion into mucilaginous
sugar. The more sugar the malt contains, the more is its saccharine
fermentation accelerated by the action of the diastase. What has been
here said of pale malt, is still more applicable to the case of a
mixture of raw grain with malt, for it requires still gentler heats, and
more cautious treatment.

III. The mash-tun is a large circular tub with a double bottom; the
uppermost of which is called a false bottom, and is pierced with many
holes. There is a space of about 2 or 3 inches between the two, into
which the stopcocks enter, for letting in the water and drawing off the
wort. The holes of the false bottom should be burned, and not bored, to
prevent the chance of their filling up by the swelling of the wood,
which would obstruct the drainage: the holes should be conical, and
largest below, being about 3/8 of an inch there, and 1/8 at the upper
surface. The perforated bottom must be fitted truly at the sides of the
mash-tun, so that no grains may pass through. The mashed liquor is let
off into a large back, from which it is pumped into the wort coppers.
The mash-tun is provided with a peculiar rotatory apparatus for
agitating the crushed grains and water together, which we shall
presently describe. The size of the wort copper is proportional to the
amount of the brewing, and it must, in general, be at least so large as
to operate upon the whole quantity of wort made from one mashing; that
is, for every quarter of malt mashed, the copper should contain 140
gallons. The mash-tun ought to be at least a third larger, and of a
conical form, somewhat wider below than above. The quantity of water to
be employed for mashing, or the extraction of the wort, depends upon the
greater or less strength to be given to the beer. The seeds of the
crushed malt, after the wort is drawn off, retain still about 32 gallons
of water for every quarter of malt. In the boiling, and evaporation from
the coolers, 40 gallons of water are dissipated from one quarter of
malt; constituting 72 gallons in all. If 13 quarters of barley be taken
to make 1500 gallons of beer, 2400 gallons of water must therefore be
required for the mashing. This example will give an idea of the
proportions for an ordinary quality of beer.

When the mash is to begin, the copper must be filled with water, and
heated. As soon as the water has attained the heat of 145 deg. in summer, or
167 deg. in winter, 600 gallons of it are to be run off into the mash-tun,
and the 13 quarters of crushed malt are to be gradually thrown in and
well intermixed by proper agitation, so that it may be uniformly
moistened, and no lumps may remain. After continuing the agitation in
this way for one half or three-quarters of an hour, the water in the
copper will have approached to its boiling point, when 450 gallons at
the temperature of about 200 deg. are to be run into the mash-tun, and the
agitation is to be renewed till the whole assumes an equally fluid
state: the tun is now to be well covered for the preservation of its
heat, and to be allowed to remain at rest for an hour, or an hour and a
half. The mean temperature of this mash may be reckoned at about 145 deg.
The time which is necessary for the transmuting heat of the remaining
starch into sugar depends on the quality of the malt. Brown malt
requires less time than pale malt, and still less than a mixture with
raw grain, as already explained. After the mash has rested the proper
time, the tap of the tun is opened, and the clear wort is to be drawn
out into the under back. If the wort that first flows is turbid, it must
be returned into the tun, till it runs clear. The amount of this first
wort may be about 675 gallons. Seven hundred and fifty gallons of water
at the temperature of 200 deg. are now to be introduced up through the
drained malt, into the tun, and the mixture is to be agitated till it
becomes uniform, as before. The mash-tun is then to be covered, and
allowed to remain at rest for an hour. The temperature of this mash is
from 167 deg. to 174 deg. While the second mash is making, the worts of the
first are to be pumped into the wort copper, and set a-boiling as
speedily as possible. The wort of the second mash is to be drawn off at
the proper time, and added to the copper as fast as it will receive it,
without causing the ebullition to stop.

A third quantity of water amounting to 600 gallons, at 200 deg., is to be
introduced into the mash-tun, and after half an hour, is to be drawn
off, and either pumped into the wort copper, or reserved for mashing
fresh malt, as the brewer may think fit.

The quantity of extract, per barrel weight, which a quarter of malt
yields to wort, amounts to about 84 lbs. The wort of the first extract
is the strongest; the second contains, commonly, one-half the extract of
the first; and the third, one-half of the second; according to
circumstances.

To measure the degrees of concentration of the worts drawn off from the
tun, a particular form of hydrometer, called a saccharometer, is
employed, which indicates the number of pounds weight of liquid
contained in a barrel of 36 gallons imperial measure. Now, as the barrel
of water weighs 360 lbs., the indication of the instrument when placed
in any wort, shows by how many pounds a barrel of that wort is heavier
than a barrel of water; thus, if the instrument sinks with its poise
till the mark 10 is upon a line with the surface of the liquid, it
indicates that a barrel of that wort weighs ten pounds more than a
barrel of water. See SACCHAROMETER.

Or, supposing the barrel of wort weighs 396 lbs., to convert that number
into specific gravity, we have the following simple rule:--

  360 : 396 [::] 100 : 1.100;

at which density, by my experiments, the wort contains 25 per cent., of
solid extract.

Having been employed to make experiments on the density of worts, and
the fermentative changes which they undergo, for the information of a
committee of the House of Commons, which sat in July and August, 1830, I
shall here introduce a short abstract of that part of my evidence which
bears upon the present subject.

My first object was to clear up the difficulties which, to common
apprehension, hung over the matter, from the difference in the scales
of the saccharometers in use among the brewers and distillers of England
and Scotland. I found that one quarter of good malt would yield to the
porter brewer a barrel Imperial measure of wort, at the concentrated
specific gravity of 1.234. Now, if the decimal part of this number be
multiplied by 360, being the number of pounds weight of water in the
barrel, the product will denote the excess in pounds, of the weight of a
barrel of such concentrated wort, over that of a barrel of water, and
that product is, in the present case, 84.24 pounds.

Mr. Martineau, jun., of the house of Messrs. Whitbread and Company, and
a gentleman connected with another great London brewery, had the
kindness to inform me that their average product from a quarter of malt
was a barrel of 84 lbs. gravity. It is obvious, therefore, that by
taking the mean operation of two such great establishments, I must have
arrived very nearly at the truth.

It ought to be remarked that such a high density of wort as 1.234 is not
the result of any direct experiment in the brewery, for infusion of malt
is never drawn off so strong; that density is deduced by computation
from the quantity and quality of several successive infusions; thus,
supposing a first infusion of the quarter of malt to yield a barrel of
specific gravity 1.112, a second to yield a barrel at 1.091, and a third
a barrel at 1.031, we shall have three barrels at the mean of these
three numbers, or one barrel at their sum, equal to 1.234.

I may here observe that the arithmetical mean or sum is not the true
mean or sum of the two specific gravities; but this difference is either
not known or disregarded by the brewers. At low densities this
difference is inconsiderable, but at high densities it would lead to
serious errors. At specific gravity 1.231, wort or syrup contains one
half of its weight of solid pure saccharum, and at 1.1045 it contains
one fourth of its weight; but the brewer's rule, when here applied,
gives for the mean specific gravity 1.1155 = (1.231 + 1.000)/2.

The contents in solid saccharine matter at that density are however
27-1/4 per cent. showing the rule to be 2-1/4 lbs. wrong in excess on
100 lbs., or 9 lbs. per barrel.

The specific gravity of the solid dry extract of malt wort is 1.264; it
was taken in oil of turpentine, and the result reduced to distilled
water as unity. Its specific volume is 0.7911, that is, 10 lbs. of it
will occupy the volume of 7.911 lbs. of water. The mean specific
gravity, by computation of a solution of that extract in its own weight
of water, is 1.1166; but by experiment, the specific gravity of that
solution is 1.216, showing considerable condensation of volume in the
act of combination with water.

The following Table shows the relation between the specific gravities of
solutions of malt extract, and the per-centage of solid extract they
contain:

  +-----+------+------------+-------+--------+
  |Extr.|Water.|Malt Extract| Sugar |Specific|
  |Malt.|      |  in 100.   |in 100.|gravity.|
  +-----+------+------------+-------+--------+
  |600 +|  600 |   50.00    | 47.00 | 1.2180 |
  |600 +|  900 |   40.0     | 37.00 | 1.1670 |
  |600 +| 1200 |   33.3     | 31.50 | 1.1350 |
  |600 +| 1500 |   28.57    | 26.75 | 1.1130 |
  |600 +| 1800 |   25.00    | 24.00 | 1.1000 |
  +-----+------+------------+-------+--------+

The extract of malt was evaporated to dryness, at a temperature of about
250 deg. F., without the slightest injury to its quality, or any
empyreumatic smell. Bate's tables have been constructed on solutions of
sugar, and not with solutions of extract of malt, or they agree
sufficiently well with the former, but differ materially from the
latter. Allan's tables give the amount of a certain form of solid
saccharine matter extracted from malt, and dried at 175 deg. F., in
correspondence to the specific gravity of the solution; but I have found
it impossible to make a solid extract from infusions of malt, except at
much higher temperatures than 175 deg. F. Indeed, the numbers on Allan's
saccharometer scale clearly show that his extract was by no means dry:
thus, at 1.100 of gravity he assigns 29.669 per cent. of solid
saccharine matter; whereas there is at that density of solid extract
only 25 per cent. Again, at 1.135, Allan gives 40 parts per cent. of
solid extract, whereas there are only 33-1/3 present.

By the triple mashing operations above described, the malt is so much
exhausted that it can yield no further extract useful for strong beer or
porter. A weaker wort might no doubt still be drawn off for small beer,
or for contributing a little to the strength of the next mashing of
fresh malt. But this I believe is seldom practised by respectable
brewers, as it impoverishes the grains which they dispose of for feeding
cattle.

The wort should be transferred into the copper, and made to boil as soon
as possible, for if it remains long in the under-back it is apt to
become acescent. The steam moreover raised from it in the act of boiling
serves to screen it from the oxygenating or acidifying influence of the
atmosphere. Until it begins to boil, the air should be excluded by some
kind of a cover.

Sometimes the first wort is brewed by itself into strong ale, the second
by itself into an intermediate quality; and the third into small beer;
but this practice is not much followed in this country.

We shall now treat of the boiling in of the hops. The wort drawn from
the mash-tun, whenever it is pumped into the copper, must receive its
allowance of hops. Besides evaporating off a portion of the water, and
thereby concentrating the wort, boiling has a twofold object. In the
first place, it coagulates the albuminous matter, partly by the heat,
and partly by the principles in the hops, and thereby causes a general
clarification of the whole mass, with the effect of separating the muddy
matters in a flocculent form. Secondly, during the ebullition, the
residuary starch and hordeine of the malt are converted into a limpid
sweetish mucilage, the _dextrine_ above described; while some of the
glutinous stringy matter is rendered insoluble by the tannin principle
of the hops, which favours still further the clearing of the wort. By
both operations the keeping quality of the beer is improved. This boil
must be continued during several hours; a longer time for the stronger,
and a shorter for the weaker beers. There is usually one seventh or one
sixth part of the water dissipated in the boiling copper. This process
is known to have continued a sufficient time, if the separation of the
albuminous flocks is distinct, and if these are found, by means of a
proof gauge suddenly dipped to the bottom, to be collected there, while
the supernatant liquor has become limpid. Two or three hours' boil is
deemed long enough in many well-conducted breweries; but in some of
those in Belgium, the boiling is continued from 10 to 15 hours, a period
certainly detrimental to the aroma derived from the hop.

Many prefer adding the hops when the wort has just come to the boiling
point. Their effect is to repress the further progress of fermentation,
and especially the passage into the acetous stage, which would otherwise
inevitably ensue in a few days. In this respect, no other vegetable
production hitherto discovered can be a substitute for the hop. The
odorant principle is not so readily volatilised as would at first be
imagined; for when hop is mixed with strong beer wort, and boiled for
many hours, it can still impart a very considerable degree of its
flavour to weaker beer. By mere infusion in hot beer or water, without
boiling, the hop loses very little of its soluble principles. The tannin
of the hop combines, as we have said, with the vegetable albumen of the
barley, and helps to clarify the liquor. Should there be a deficiency of
albumen and gluten, in consequence of the mashing having been done at
such a heat as to have coagulated them beforehand, the defect may be
remedied by the addition of a little gelatine to the wort copper, either
in the form of calf's foot, or of a little isinglass. If the hops be
boiled in the wort for a longer period than 5 or 6 hours, they lose a
portion of their fine flavour; but if their natural flavour be rank, a
little extra boiling improves it. Many brewers throw the hops in upon
the surface of the boiling wort, and allow them to swim there for some
time, that the steam may penetrate them, and open their pores for a
complete solution of their principles when they are pushed down into the
liquor. It is proper to add the hops in considerable masses, because in
tearing them asunder, some of the lupuline powder is apt to be lost.

The quantity of hop to be added to the wort varies according to the
strength of the beer, the length of time it is to be kept, or the heat
of the climate where it is intended to be sent. For strong beer, 4-1/2
lbs. of hops are required to a quarter of malt, when it is to be highly
aromatic and remarkably clear. For the stronger kinds of ale and porter,
the rule, in England, is to take a pound of hops for every bushel of
malt, or 8 lbs. to a quarter. Common beer has seldom more than a quarter
of a pound of hops to the bushel of malt.

It has been attempted to form an extract of hops by boiling in covered
vessels, so as not to lose the oil, and to add this instead of the hop
itself to the beer. On the great scale this method has no practical
advantage, because the extraction of the hop is perfectly accomplished
during the necessary boiling of the wort, and because the hop operates
very beneficially, as we have explained, in clarifying the beer. Such an
extract, moreover, could be easily adulterated.

_Of the Coolers._--The contents of the copper are run into what is
called the hop-back, on the upper part of which is fixed a drainer, to
keep back the hops. The pump is placed in the hop-back, for the purpose
of raising the wort to the coolers, usually placed in an airy situation
upon the top of the brewery. Two coolers are indispensable when we make
two kinds of beer from the same brewing, and even in single brewings,
called _gyles_, if small beer is to be made. One of these coolers ought
to be placed above the level of the other. As it is of great consequence
to cool the worts down to the fermenting pitch as fast as possible,
various contrivances have been made for effecting this purpose. The
common cooler is a square wooden cistern, about 6 inches deep, and of
such an extent of surface that the whole of one boil may only occupy 2
inches, or thereabouts, of depth in it. For a quantity of wort equal to
about 1500 gallons its area should be at least 54 feet long and 20 feet
wide. The seams of the cooler must be made perfectly water-tight and
smooth, so that no liquor may lodge in them when they are emptied. The
utmost cleanliness is required, and an occasional sweetening with
lime-water.

The hot wort reaches the cooler at a temperature of from 200 deg. to 208 deg.,
according to the power of the pump. Here it should be cooled to the
proper temperature for the fermenting tun, which may vary from 54 deg. to
64 deg., according to circumstances. The refrigeration is accomplished by
the evaporation of a portion of the liquor: it is more rapid in
proportion to the extent of the surface, to the low temperature, and the
dryness of the atmosphere surrounding the cooler. The renewal of a body
of cool dry air by the agency of a fan, may be employed with great
advantage. The cooler itself must be so placed that its surface shall be
freely exposed to the prevailing wind of the district, and be as free as
possible from the eddy of surrounding buildings. It is thought by many,
that the agitation of the wort during its cooling, is hurtful. Were the
roof made moveable, so that the wort could be readily exposed, in a
clear night, to the aspect of the sky, it would cool rapidly by
evaporation, on the principles explained by Dr. Wells, in his "Essay on
Dew."

When the cooling is effected by evaporation alone, the temperature falls
very slowly, even in cold air, if it be loaded with moisture. But when
the air is dry, the evaporation is vigorous, and the moisture exhaled
does not remain incumbent on the liquor, as in damp weather, but is
diffused widely in space. Hence we can understand how wort cools so
rapidly in the spring and autumn, when the air is generally dry, and
even more quickly than in winter, when the air is cooler, but loaded
with moisture. In fact, the cooling process goes on better when the
atmosphere is from 50 deg. to 55 deg., than when it falls to the freezing point,
because in this case, if the air be still, the vapours generated remain
on the surface of the liquor, and prevent further evaporation. In summer
the cooling can take place only during the night.

In consequence of the evaporation during this cooling process, the bulk
of the worts is considerably reduced; thus, if the temperature at the
beginning was 208 deg., and if it be at the end 64 deg., the quantity of water
necessary to be evaporated to produce this refrigeration would be nearly
1/8 of the whole, putting radiation and conduction of heat out of the
question. The effect of this will be a proportional concentration of the
beer.

The period of refrigeration in a well-constructed cooler, amounts to 6
or 7 hours in favourable weather, but to 12 or 15 in other
circumstances. The quality of the beer is much improved by shortening
this period; because, in consequence of the great surface which the wort
exposes to the air, it readily absorbs oxygen, and passes into the
acetous fermentation with the production of various mouldy spots; an
evil to which ill-hopped beer is particularly liable. Various schemes
have been contrived to cool wort, by transmitting it through the
convolutions of a pipe immersed in cold water. The best plan is to
expose the hot wort for some hours freely to the atmosphere and the
cooler, when the loss of heat is most rapid by evaporation and other
means, and when the temperature falls to 100 deg., or thereby, to transmit
the liquor through a zig-zag pipe, laid almost horizontally in a trough
of cold water. The various methods described under _Refrigerator_ are
more complex, but they may be practised in many situations with
considerable advantage.

Whilst the wort reposes in the cooler, it lets fall a slight sediment,
which consists partly of fine flocks of coagulated albumen combined with
tannin, and partly of starch, which had been dissolved at the high
temperature, and separates at the lower. The wort should be perfectly
limpid, for a muddy liquor never produces transparent beer. Such beer
contains, besides mucilaginous sugar and gum, usually some starch, which
even remains after the fermentation, and hinders its clarifying, and
gives it a tendency to sour. The wort contains more starch the hotter it
has been mashed, the less hops have been added, and the shorter time it
has been boiled. The presence of starch in the wort may be made manifest
by adding a little solution of iodine in alcohol to it, when it will
become immediately blue. We thus see that the tranquil cooling of wort
in a proper vessel has an advantage over cooling it rapidly by a
refrigeratory apparatus. When the wort is sufficiently cool, it is let
down into the fermenting tun. In this transfer, the cooling might be
carried several degrees lower, were the wort made to pass down through a
tube inclosed in another tube, along which a stream of cold water is
flowing in the opposite direction, as we have described in the sequel of
ACETIC ACID. These fermenting tuns are commonly called _gyle-tuns_, or
working tuns, and are either square or circular, the latter being
preferable on many accounts.

IV. _Of the Fermentation._--In the great London breweries, the size of
these fermenting tuns is such that they contain from 1200 to 1500
barrels. The quantity of wort introduced at a time must, however, be
considerably less than the capacity of the vessel, to allow room for the
head of yeast which rises during the process; if the vessel be
cylindrical, this head is proportional to the depth of the worts. In
certain kinds of fermentation, it may rise to a third of that depth. In
general, the fermentation proceeds more uniformly and constantly in
large masses, because they are little influenced by vicissitudes of
temperature; smaller vessels, on the other hand, are more easily
handled. The _general_ view of fermentation will be found under that
title; I shall here make a few remarks on what is peculiar to beer.
During the fermentation of wort, a portion of its saccharine matter is
converted into alcohol, and wort thus changed, is beer. It is necessary
that this conversion of the sugar be only partial, for beer which
contains no undecomposed sugar would soon turn sour, and even in the
casks its alcohol undergoes a slow fermentation into vinegar. The amount
of this excess of sugar is greater in proportion to the strength of the
wort, since a certain quantity of alcohol, already formed, prevents the
operation of the ferment on the remaining wort. Temperature has the
greatest influence upon the fermentation of wort. A temperature of from
55 deg. to 60 deg. of the liquor, when that of the atmosphere is 55 deg., is most
advantageous for the commencement. The warmth of the wort as it comes
into the gyle-tun must be modified by that of the air in the apartment.
In winter, when this apartment is cold, the wort should not be cooled
under 64 deg. or 60 deg., as in that case the fermentation would be tedious or
interrupted, and the wort liable to spoil or become sour. In summer,
when the temperature of the place rises to above 75 deg., the wort should be
cooled, if possible, down to 55 deg., for which purpose it should be let in
by the system of double pipes, above mentioned. The higher the
temperature of the wort, the sooner will the fermentation begin and end,
and the less is it in our power to regulate its progress. The expert
brewer must steer a middle course between these two extremes, which
threaten to destroy his labours. In some breweries a convoluted pipe is
made to traverse or go round the sides of the gyle-tun, through which
warm water is allowed to flow in winter, and cold in summer, so as to
modify the temperature of the mass to the proper fermenting pitch. If
there be no contrivance of this kind, the apartment may be cooled in
summer, by suspending wet canvas opposite the windows in warm weather,
and kindling a small stove within it in cold.

When the wort is discharged into the gyle-tun, it must receive its dose
of yeast, which has been previously mixed with a quantity of the wort,
and left in a warm place till it has begun to ferment. This mixture,
called _lobb_, is then to be put into the tun, and stirred well through
the mass. The yeast should be taken from similar beer. Its quantity must
depend upon the temperature, strength, and quantity of the wort. In
general, one gallon of yeast is sufficient to set 100 gallons of wort in
complete fermentation. An excess of yeast is to be avoided, lest the
fermentation should be too violent, and be finished in less than the
proper period of 6 or 8 days. More yeast is required in winter than
summer; for, at a temperature of 50 deg., a double quantity may be used to
that at 68 deg.

Six or eight hours after adding the yeast, the tun being meanwhile
covered, the fermentation becomes active: a white milky-looking froth
appears, first on the middle, and spreads gradually over the whole
surface; but continues highest in the middle, forming a frothy
elevation, the height of which increases with the progress of the
fermentation, and whose colour gradually changes to a bright brown, the
result, apparently, of the oxidation of the extractive contained in this
yeasty top. This covering screens the wort from the contact of the
atmospherical air. During this time, there is a perpetual disengagement
of carbonic acid gas, which is proportional to the quantity of sugar
converted into alcohol. The warmth of the fermenting liquid increases at
the same time, and is at a maximum when the fermentation has come to its
highest point. This increase of temperature amounts to from 9 deg. to 14 deg. or
upwards, and is the greater the more rapid the fermentation. But in
general, the fermentation is not allowed to proceed so far in the
gyle-tun, for after it is advanced a little way, the beer is _cleansed_,
that is, drawn off into other vessels, which are large barrels set on
end, with large openings in their top, furnished with a sloping tray for
discharging an excess of yeast into the wooden trough, in which the
_stillions_ stand. These _stillions_ are placed in communication with a
store-tub, which keeps them always full, by hydrostatic pressure, so
that the head of yeast may spontaneously flow over, and keep the body of
liquor in the cask clean. This apparatus will be explained in describing
the brewery plant. See the _figures, infra_.

It must be observed, that the quantity of yeast, and the heat of
fermentation, differ for every different quality of beer. For mild ale,
when the fermentation has reached 75 deg., its first flavour begins; at 80 deg.
the flavour increases; at 85 deg. it approaches the high flavour; at 90 deg. it
is high; but it may be carried to 100 deg. and upwards, for particular
purposes. A wort of 30 lbs. per barrel (sp. gr. 1.088), ought to
increase about 15 deg., so that in order to arrive at 80 deg., it should be set
at 65 deg. The quantity of yeast for such an ale should be from 2 to 3 lbs.
per barrel. The higher the heat, the less yeast is necessary. If the
heat of the fermentation should at any time fall, it must be raised by a
supply of fresh yeast, well stirred in; but this practice is not
advisable in general, because rousing the worts in the gyle-tun is apt
to communicate a rank flavour of yeast to the ale. It is the practice of
many experienced brewers to look every 2 hours into the gyle-tun,
chiefly with the view of observing the progress of the heat, which is
low at first, but afterwards often increases half a degree per hour, and
subsequently declines, as the fermentation approaches its conclusion,
till at length the heat becomes uniform, or sometimes decreases, before
the fermentation is finished, especially where the quantity operated
upon is small.

Some brewers recommend, when the fermentation is carried to its utmost
period, to add about 7 lbs. of wheat or bean flour to a gyle-tun of 25
or 30 barrels, at the time of _cleansing_, so as to quicken the
discharge of the yeast, by disengagement of more carbonic acid. The
flour should be whisked up in a pail, with some of the beer, till the
lumps are broken, and then poured in. By early cleansing, the yeast is
preserved longer in a state proper for a perfect fermentation than by a
contrary practice.

For old ale, which is to be long kept, the heat of the fermentation
should not exceed 75 deg., but a longer time is required to complete the
fermentation and ensure the future good flavour of the ale.

For porter, the general practice is, to use from 4 to 4-1/2 lbs. of hops
per barrel for keeping; though what is termed mild or mixing porter, has
not more than 3 or 3-1/2 lbs. The heat of fermentation must not exceed
70 deg., and begin about 60 deg. If the heat tend to increase much above that
pitch in the gyle-tun, the porter should be _cleansed_, by means of the
_stillions_. At this period of the fermentation, care should be taken
that the sweetness of the malt be removed, for which purpose more yeast
may be used than with any other beer of the same strength. The quantity
is from 3 to 4 lbs. per barrel, rousing the wort in the gyle-tun every 2
hours in the day-time.

When the plan of _cleansing_ casks is not employed, the yeast is removed
from the surface of the fermenting tun by a skimmer, and the clear beer
beneath is then drawn off into the ripening tuns, called _store-vats_,
in which it is mixed up with different brewings, to suit the taste of
the customers. This transfer must take place whenever the extrication of
carbonic acid has nearly ceased; lest the alcohol formed should dissolve
some of the floating yeast, acquire thereby a disagreeable taste, and
pass partially into the acetous state.

In this process, during the formation of vinous spirit at the expense of
the sugar, the albumen and gluten diffused through the beer, being acted
upon by the alcohol, become insoluble; one portion of them is buoyed to
the top with the carbonic acid gas, to form the frothy yeast; and
another portion falls to form the bottom barm. The former consists of
the same materials as the wort, with a large proportion of gluten, which
forms its active constituent; the latter is a peculiar deposit,
consisting of the same gluten mixed with the various dense impurities of
the wort, and may be also used as a ferment, but is cruder than the
floating yeast. The amount of yeast is proportional to the activity of
the fermentation, or extrication of carbonic acid gas, as also to the
heat of the mashing process, and the quantity of starch or flour
unaltered by germination. Pale malt affords usually, more yeast than
malt highly kilned. When the yeast becomes excessive, from too violent
fermentation, it should be skimmed off from time to time, which will
tend to cool the liquor and moderate the intestine changes.

After the beer is let down into the close store-tuns in the cellar, an
obscure fermentation goes on, for a considerable period in its body,
which increases its spirituous strength, and keeps up in it a constant
impregnation of carbonic acid gas, so as to render it lively and
agreeable to the taste, when it is casked off for sale. It would appear,
that beer is never stationary in quality, while it is contained in the
tuns; for the moment when it ceases to improve by the decomposition of
its residuary sugar, it begins to degenerate into vinegar. This result
may be produced either by the exhaustion of the saccharine, or by the
fermentative matter. The store cellar should therefore be under ground,
free from alternations of temperature, vibrations of carriages, and as
cool as possible. In the great London breweries, the fermentation is
rendered very complete in the cleansing butts; so that a slow and steady
ripening is ensured in the great store-tuns. The gyle-tuns are too
capacious to permit the fermentation to be finished, with either safety
or sufficient dispatch in them.

V. OF RIPENING DIFFERENT KINDS OF BEER.--The varieties of beer depend
either upon the difference of their materials, or from a different
management of the brewing processes.

With regard to the materials, beers differ in the proportion of their
malt, hops, and water; and in the different kinds of malt or other
grain. To the class of table or small beers, all those sorts may be
referred whose specific gravity does not exceed 1.025, which contain
about 5 per cent. of malt extract, or nearly 18 pounds per barrel. Beers
of middling strength may be reckoned those between the density of 1.025
and 1.040; which contain, at the average, 7 per cent., or 25 pounds per
barrel. The latter may be made with 400 quarters of malt to 1500 barrels
of beer. Stronger beers have a specific gravity of from 1.050 to 1.080,
and take from 45 to 75 quarters of malt to the same quantity of beer.
The strongest beer found in the market is some of the English and Scotch
ales, for which from 18 to 27 quarters of malt are taken for 1500
gallons of beer. Good porter requires from 16 to 18 quarters for that
quantity. Beers are sometimes made with the addition of other
farinaceous matter to the malt; but when the latter constitutes the main
portion of the grain, the malting of the other kinds of corn becomes
unnecessary, for the diastase of the barley-malt changes the starch into
sugar during the mashing operation. Even with entirely raw grain, beer
is made in some parts of the Continent, the brewers trusting the
conversion of the starch into sugar to the action of the gluten alone,
at a low mashing temperature, on the principle of Saussure's and
Kirchoff's researches.

The colour of the beer depends upon the colour of the malt, and the
duration of the boil in the copper. The pale ale is made, as we have
stated, from steam or sun-dried malt, and the young shoots of the hop;
the deep yellow ale from a mixture of pale yellow and brown malt; and
the dark brown beer from well-kilned and partly carbonised malt, mixed
with a good deal of the pale, to give body. The longer and more strongly
heated the malt has been in the kiln, the less weight of extract,
_caeteris paribus_, does it afford. In making the fine mild ales, high
temperatures ought to be avoided, and the yeast ought to be skimmed off,
or allowed to flow very readily from its top, by means of the cleansing
butt system, so that little ferment being left in it to decompose the
rest of the sugar, the sweetness may remain unimpaired. With regard to
porter, in certain breweries, each of the three kinds of malt employed
for it is separately mashed, after which the first and the half of the
second wort is boiled along with the whole of the hops, and thence
cooled and set to ferment in the gyle-tun. The third drawn wort, with
the remaining half of the second, is then boiled with the same hops,
saved by the drainer, and, after cooling, added to the former in the
gyle-tun, when the two must be well roused together.

It is obvious, from the preceding development of principles, that all
amylaceous and saccharine materials, such as potatoes, beans, turnips,
as well as cane and starch syrup, molasses, &c., may be used in brewing
beer. When, however, a superior quality of brown beer is desired, malted
barley is indispensable, and even with these substitutes a mixture of it
is most advantageous. The washed roots of the common carrot, of the red
and yellow beet, or of the potato, must be first boiled in water, and
then mashed into a pulp. This pulp must be mixed with water in the
copper, along with wheaten or oat meal, and the proper quantity of hops,
then boiled during 8 or 9 hours. This wort is to be cooled in the usual
way, and fermented, with the addition of yeast. A much better process is
that now practised, on a considerable scale, at Strasbourg, in making
the ale, for which that city is celebrated. The mashed potatoes are
mixed with from a twentieth to a tenth of their weight of finely ground
barley malt, and some water. The mixture is exposed, in a water-bath, to
a heat of 160 deg. F. for four hours, whereby it passes into a saccharine
state, and may then be boiled with hops, cooled, and properly fermented
into good beer.

Maize, or Indian corn, has also been employed to make beer; but its
malting is somewhat difficult on account of the rapidity and vigour with
which its radicles and plumula sprout forth. The proper mode of causing
it to germinate is to cover it, a few inches deep, with common soil, in
a garden or field, and to leave it there till the bed is covered with
green shoots of the plant. The corn must be then lifted, washed, and
exposed to the kiln.

_The Difference of the Fermentation._--The greater or less rapidity with
which the worts are made to ferment has a remarkable influence upon the
quality of the beer, especially in reference to its fitness for keeping.
The wort is a mucilaginous solution in which the yeastly principles,
eliminated by the fermentation, will, if favoured by regular and slow
intestine movements, completely rise to the surface, or sink to the
bottom, so as to leave the body fine. But, when the action is too
violent, these barmy glutinous matters get comminuted and dispersed
through the liquor, and can never afterwards be thoroughly separated. A
portion of the same feculent matter becomes, moreover, permanently
dissolved, during this furious commotion, by the alcohol that is
generated. Thus the beer loses not merely its agreeable flavour and
limpidity, but is apt to spoil from the slightest causes. The slower,
more regularly progressive, and less interrupted, therefore, the
fermentation is, so much better will the product be.

Beer, in its perfect condition, is an excellent and healthful beverage,
combining, in some measure, the virtues of water, of wine, and of food,
as it quenches thirst, stimulates, cheers, and strengthens. The vinous
portion of it is the alcohol, proceeding from the fermentation of the
malt sugar. Its amount, in common strong ale or beer, is about 4 per
cent., or four measures of spirits, specific gravity 0.825 in 100
measures of the liquor. The best brown stout porter contains 6 per
cent., the strongest ale even 8 per cent.; but common beer only one. The
nutritive part of the beer is the undecomposed gum-sugar, and the
starch-gum, not changed into sugar. Its quantity is very variable,
according to the original starch of the wort, the length of the
fermentation, and the age of the beer.

The main feature of good beer is fine colour and transparency; the
production of which is an object of great interest to the brewer.
Attempts to clarify it in the cask seldom fail to do it harm. The only
thing that can be used with advantage for _fining_ foul or muddy beer,
is isinglass. For porter, as commonly brewed, it is frequently had
recourse to. A pound of good isinglass will make about 12 gallons of
_finings_. It is cut into slender shreds, and put into a tub with as
much vinegar or hard beer as will cover it, in order that it may swell
and dissolve. In proportion as the solution proceeds, more beer must be
poured upon it, but it need not be so acidulous as the first, because,
when once well softened by the vinegar, it readily dissolves. The
mixture should be frequently agitated with a bundle of rods, till it
acquires the uniform consistence of thin treacle, when it must be
equalised still more by passing through a tammy cloth, or a sieve. It
may now be made up with beer to the proper measure of dilution. The
quantity generally used is from a pint to a quart per barrel, more or
less, according to the foulness of the beer. But before putting it into
the butt, it should be diffused through a considerable volume of the
beer with a whisk, till a frothy head be raised upon it. It is in this
state to be poured into the cask, briskly stirred about; after which the
cask must be bunged down for at least 24 hours, when the liquor should
be limpid. Sometimes the beer will not be improved by this treatment;
but this should be ascertained beforehand, by drawing off some of the
beer into a cylindric jar or phial, and adding to it a little of the
finings. After shaking and setting down the glass, we shall observe
whether the feculencies begin to collect in flocky parcels, which slowly
subside; or whether the isinglass falls to the bottom without making any
impression upon the beer. This is always the case when the fermentation
is incomplete, or a secondary decomposition has begun. Mr. Jackson has
accounted for this clarifying effect of isinglass in the following way.

The isinglass, he thinks, is first of all rather diffused mechanically,
than chemically dissolved, in the sour beer or vinegar, so that when the
finings are put into the foul beer, the gelatinous fibres, being set
free in the liquor, attract and unite with the floating feculencies,
which before this union were of the same specific gravity with the beer,
and therefore could not subside alone; but having now acquired
additional weight by the coating of fish-glue, precipitate as a
flocculent magma. This is Mr. Jackson's explanation; to which I would
add, that if there be the slightest disengagement of carbonic acid gas,
it will keep up an obscure locomotion in the particles, which will
prevent the said light impurities, either alone or when coated with
isinglass, from subsiding. The beer is then properly enough called
_stubborn_ by the coopers. But the true theory of the action of
isinglass is, that the tannin of the hops combines with the fluid
gelatine, and forms a flocculent mass, which envelopes the muddy
particles of the beer, and carries them to the bottom as it falls, and
forms a sediment. When after the finings are poured in, no proper
precipitate ensues, it may be made to appear by the addition of a little
decoction of hop.

Mr. Richardson, the author of the well-known brewer's saccharometer,
gives the following as the densities of different kinds of beer:--

  +-----------------------+------------------+-----------------+
  |         Beer.         |Pounds per Barrel.|Specific Gravity.|
  +-----------------------+------------------+-----------------+
  |Burton ale, 1st sort   |     40 to 43     | 1.111 to 1.120  |
  |            2d ditto   |     35 to 40     | 1.097 to 1.111  |
  |            3d ditto   |     28 to 33     | 1.077 to 1.092  |
  |Common ale             |     25 to 27     | 1.070 to 1.073  |
  |Ditto ditto            |        21        | 1.058           |
  |Porter, common sort    |        18        | 1.050           |
  |Ditto, double          |        20        | 1.055           |
  |Ditto, brown stout     |        23        | 1.064           |
  |Ditto, best brown stout|        26        | 1.072           |
  |Common small beer      |         6        | 1.014           |
  |Good table beer        |     12 to 14     | 1.033 to 1.039  |
  +-----------------------+------------------+-----------------+

_Of Returns or Malt Residuums._--When small beer is brewed after ale or
porter, only one mash is to be made; but where this is not done, there
may be two mashes, in order to economise malt to the utmost. We may let
on the water at 160 deg. or 165 deg., in any convenient quantity, infuse for an
hour or thereby, then run it off, and pump into the copper, putting some
hops into it, and causing it to boil for an instant; when it may be
transferred to the cooler. A second mash or return may be made in the
same manner, but at a heat 5 deg. lower; and then disposed of in the boiler
with some hops, which may remain in the copper during the night at a
scalding heat, and may be discharged into the cooler in the morning.
These two returns are to be let down into the under-back immediately
before the next brewing, and thence heated in the copper for the next
mashing of fresh malt, instead of hot water, commonly called _liquor_,
in the breweries. But allowance must be made, in the calculation of the
worts, for the quantity of fermentable matter in these two returns. The
nett aggregate saving is estimated from the gravity of the return taken
when cold in the cooler. A slight economy is also made in the extra
boiling of the used hops. The lapse of a day or two between the
consecutive brewings is no objection to the method of _returns_, because
they are too weak in saccharine matter to run any risk of fermentation.

In conclusion, it may be remarked that Mr. Richardson somewhat
underrates the gravity of porter, which is now seldom under 20 lbs. per
barrel. The criterion for transferring from the gyle-tun to the
cleansing butts is the attenuation caused by the production of alcohol
in the beer: when that has fallen to 10 lbs. or 11 lbs., which it
usually does in 48 hours, the cleansing process is commenced. The heat
is at this time generally 75 deg., if it was pitched at 65 deg.; for the heat
and the attenuation go hand in hand.

About thirty years ago, it was customary for the London brewers of
porter, to keep immense stocks of it for eighteen months or two years,
with the view of improving its quality. The beer was pumped from the
cleansing butts into store-vats, holding from twenty to twenty-five
gyles or brewings of several hundred barrels each. The store-vats had
commonly a capacity of 5000 or 6000 barrels; and a few were double, and
one was treble, this size. The porter, during its long repose in these
vats, became fine, and by obscure fermentation its saccharine mucilage
was nearly all converted into vinous liquor, and dissipated in carbonic
acid. Its hop-bitter was also in a great degree decomposed. _Good hard
beer_ was the boast of the day. This was sometimes softened by the
publican, by the addition of some mild new-brewed beer. Of late years,
the taste of the metropolis has undergone such a complete revolution in
this respect, that nothing but the mildest porter will now go down.
Hence, six weeks is a long period for beer to be kept in London; and
much of it is drunk when only a fortnight old. Ale is for the same
reason come greatly into vogue; and the two greatest porter houses,
Messrs. Barclay, Perkins, & Co., and Truman, Hanbury, & Co., have become
extensive and successful brewers of mild ale, to please the changed
palate of their customers.

We shall add a few observations upon the brewing of Scotch ale. This
beverage is characterised by its pale amber colour, and its mild
balsamic flavour. The bitterness of the hop is so mellowed with the
malt, as not to predominate. The ale of Preston Pans is, in fact, the
best substitute for wine which barley has hitherto produced. The low
temperature at which the Scotch brewer pitches his fermenting tun
restricts his labours to the colder months of the year. He does nothing
during four of the summer months. He is extremely nice in selecting his
malt and hops; the former being made from the best English barley, and
the latter being the growth of Farnham or East Kent. The yeast is
carefully looked after, and measured into the fermenting tun in the
proportion of one gallon to 240 gallons of wort.

Only one mash is made by the Scotch ale brewer, and that pretty strong;
but the malt is exhausted by eight or ten successive sprinklings of
liquor (hot water) over the goods (malt), which are termed in the
vernacular tongue, _sparges_. These waterings percolate through the malt
on the mash-tun bottom, and extract as much of the saccharine matter as
may be sufficient for the brewing. By this simple method much higher
specific gravities may be obtained than would be practicable by a second
mash. With malt, the infusion or saccharine fermentation of the
_diastase_ is finished with the first mash; and nothing remains but to
wash away from the goods the matter which that process has rendered
soluble. It will be found on trial that 20 barrels of wort drawn from a
certain quantity of malt, by two successive mashings, will not be so
rich in fermentable matter as 20 barrels extracted by ten successive
sparges of two barrels each. The grains always remain soaked with wort
like that just drawn off, and the total residual quantity is three
fourths of a barrel for every quarter of malt. The gravity of this
residual wort will on the first plan be equal to that of the second
mash; but on the second plan, it will be equal only to that of the tenth
sparge, and will be more attenuated in a very high geometrical ratio.
The only serious objection to the sparging system is the loss of time by
the successive drainages. A mash-tun with a steam jacket, promises to
suit the sparging system well; as it would keep up an uniform
temperature in the goods, without requiring them to be sparged with very
hot liquor.

The first part of the Scotch process seems of doubtful economy; for the
mash liquor is heated so high as 180 deg. After mashing for about half an
hour, or till every particle of the malt is thoroughly drenched, the tun
is covered, and the mixture left to infuse about three hours; it is then
drained off into the under-back, or preferably into the wort copper.

After this wort is run off, a quantity of liquor (water), at 180 deg. of
heat, is sprinkled uniformly over the surface of the malt; being first
dashed on a perforated circular board, suspended horizontally over the
mash-tun, wherefrom it descends like a shower upon the whole of the
goods. The percolating wort is allowed to flow off, by three or more
small stopcocks round the circumference of the mash-tun, to insure the
equal diffusion of the liquor.

The first sparge being run off in the course of twenty minutes, another
similar one is affused; and thus in succession till the whole of the
drainage, when mixed with the first mash-wort, constitutes the density
adapted to the quality of the ale. Thus, the strong worts are prepared,
and the malt is exhausted either for table beer, or for a _return_, as
pointed out above. The last sparges are made 5 deg. or 6 deg. cooler than the
first.

The quantity of hops seldom exceeds four pounds to the quarter of malt.
The manner of boiling the worts is the same as that above described; but
the conduct of the fermentation is peculiar. The heat is pitched at 50 deg.,
and the fermentation continues from a fortnight to three weeks. Were
three brewings made in the week, seven or eight working tuns would thus
be in constant action; and, as they are usually in one room, and some of
them at an _elevation_ of temperature of 15 deg., the apartment must be
propitious to fermentation, however low its heat may be at the
commencement. No more yeast is used than is indispensable: if a little
more be needed, it is made effective by rousing up the tuns twice a day
from the bottom.

When the progress of the attenuation becomes so slack as not to exceed
half a pound in the day, it is prudent to cleanse, otherwise the top
harm might re-enter the body of the beer, and it would become
_yeast-bitten_. When the ale is cleansed, the head, which has not been
disturbed for some days, is allowed to float on the surface till the
whole of the _then_ pure ale is drawn off into the casks. This top is
regarded as a sufficient preservative against the contact of the
atmosphere. The Scotch do not skim their tuns, as the London ale brewers
commonly do. The Scotch ale, when so cleansed, does not require to be
set upon close stillions. It throws off little or no yeast, because the
fermentation was nearly finished in the tun. The strength of the best
Scotch ale ranges between 32 and 44 pounds to the barrel; or it has a
specific gravity of from 1.088 to 1.122, according to the price at which
it is sold. In a good fermentation, seldom more than a fourth of the
original gravity of the wort remains at the period of the cleansing.
Between one third and one fourth is the usual degree of attenuation.
Scotch ale soon becomes fine, and is seldom racked for the home market.
The following table will show the progress of fermentation in a brewing
of good Scotch ale:--

  20 barrels of mash-worts of 42-1/2 pounds gravity = 860.6
  20        -- returns         6-1/10               = 122
                                                      -----
                                                 12 ) 982.6
                                                      -----
       pounds weight of extract per quarter of malt =  81

Fermentation:--

  March 24. pitched the tun at 51 deg.: yeast 4 gallons.
                               Temp.  Gravity.
        25.                    52 deg.    41 pounds.
        28.                    56 deg.    39
        30.                    60 deg.    34
  April  1.                    62 deg.    32
         4.                    65 deg.    29 added 1 lb. of yeast.
         5.                    66 deg.    25
         6.                    67 deg.    23
         7.                    67 deg.    20
         8.                    66 deg.    18
         9.                    66 deg.    15
        10.                    64 deg.    14.5 cleansed[7].

  [7] BREWING (Society for diffusing Useful Knowledge), p. 156.

The following table shows the origin and the result of fermentation, in
a number of practical experiments:--

  +--------+----------+-----------+----------+------------+
  |Original| Lbs. per |  Specific | Lbs. per |Attenuation,|
  |Gravity |Barrel of |  Gravity  |Barrel of |or Saccharum|
  |of the  |Saccharine|of the Ale.|Saccharine| decomposed.|
  | Worts. | Matter.  |           | Matter.  |            |
  +--------+----------+-----------+----------+------------+
  | 1.0950 |  88.75   |  1.0500   |  40.25   |   0.478    |
  | 1.0918 |  85.62   |  1.0420   |  38.42   |   0.552    |
  | 1.0829 |  78.125  |  1.0205   |  16.87   |   0.787    |
  | 1.0862 |  80.625  |  1.0236   |  20.00   |   0.757    |
  | 1.0780 |  73.75   |  1.0280   |  24.25   |   0.698    |
  | 1.0700 |  65.00   |  1.0285   |  25.00   |   0.615    |
  | 1.1002 |  93.75   |  1.0400   |  36.25   |   0.613    |
  | 1.1025 |  95.93   |  1.0420   |  38.42   |   0.600    |
  | 1.0978 |  91.56   |  1.0307   |  27.00   |   0.705    |
  | 1.0956 |  89.37   |  1.0358   |  32.19   |   0.640    |
  | 1.1130 | 105.82   |  1.0352   |  31.87   |   0.661    |
  | 1.1092 | 102.187  |  1.0302   |  26.75   |   0.605    |
  | 1.1171 | 110.00   |  1.0400   |  36.25   |   0.669    |
  | 1.1030 |  96.40   |  1.0271   |  23.42   |   0.757    |
  | 1.0660 |  61.25   |  1.0214   |  17.80   |   0.709    |
  +--------+----------+-----------+----------+------------+

The second column here does not represent, I believe, the solid extract,
but the pasty extract obtained as the basis of Mr. Allen's
saccharometer, and therefore each of its numbers is somewhat too high.
The last column, also, must be in some measure erroneous, on account of
the quantity of alcohol dissipated during the process of fermentation.
It must be likewise incorrect, because the density due to the saccharine
matter will be partly counteracted, by the effect of the alcohol present
in the fermented liquor. In fact, the attenuation does not correspond to
the strength of the wort; being greatest in the third brewing, and
smallest in the first. The quantity of yeast for the above ale brewings
in the table was, upon an average, one gallon for 108 gallons; but it
varied with its quality, and with the state of the weather, which, when
warm, permits much less to be used with propriety.

The good quality of the malt, and the right management of the mashing,
may be tested by the quantity of saccharine matter contained in the
successively drawn worts. With this view, an aliquot portion of each of
them should be evaporated by a safety-bath heat to a nearly concrete
consistence, and then mixed with twice its volume of strong spirit of
wine. The truly saccharine substance will be dissolved, while the starch
and other matters will be separated; after which the proportions of each
may be determined by filtration and evaporation. Or an equally correct,
and much more expeditious, method of arriving at the same result would
be, after agitating the viscid extract with the alcohol in a tall glass
cylinder, to allow the insoluble fecula to subside, and then to
determine the specific gravity of the supernatant liquid by a
hydrometer. The additional density which the alcohol has acquired will
indicate the quantity of malt sugar which it has received. The following
table, constructed by me, at the request of Henry Warburton, Esq., M.
P., chairman of the Molasses Committee of the House of Commons in 1830,
will show the brewer the principle of this important inquiry. It
exhibits the quantity in grains weight of sugar requisite to raise the
specific gravity of a gallon of spirit of different densities to the
gravity of water = 1.000.

  Specific Gravity of   Grains, Weight of Sugar in the
        Spirit.                Gallon Imperial.
         0.995                     0.980
         0.990                     1.890
         0.985                     2.800
         0.980                     3.710
         0.975                     4.690
         0.970                     5.600
         0.965                     6.650
         0.960                     7.070
         0.955                     8.400
         0.950                     9.310

The immediate purpose of this table was to show the effect of saccharine
matter in disguising the presence or amount of alcohol in the weak
feints of the distiller. But a similar table might easily be
constructed, in which, taking a uniform quantity of alcohol of 0.825,
for example, the quantity of sugar in any wort-extract would be shown by
the increase of specific gravity which the alcohol received from
agitation with a certain weight of the wort, inspissated to a nearly
solid consistence by a safety-pan, made on the principle of my patent
sugar-pan. (See SUGAR.) Thus, the normal quantities being 1000 grain
measures of alcohol, and 100 grains by weight of inspissated
mash-extract, the hydrometer would at once indicate, by help of the
table, first, the quantity per cent. of truly saccharine matter, and
next, by subtraction, that of farinaceous matter present in it.

[Illustration: 103]

_Plan, Machinery, and Utensils of a great Brewery._--_Figs._ 103. and
104. represent the arrangement of the utensils and machinery in a porter
brewery on the largest scale; in which, however, it must be observed
that the elevation _fig._ 103. is in a great degree imaginary as to the
plane upon which it is taken; but the different vessels are arranged so
as to explain their uses most readily, and at the same time to
preserve, as nearly as possible, the relative positions which are
usually assigned to each in works of this nature.

The malt for the supply of the brewery is stored in vast granaries or
malt-lofts, usually situated in the upper part of the buildings. Of
these, I have been able to represent only one, at A, _fig._ 103.: the
others, which are supposed to be on each side of it, cannot be seen in
this view. Immediately beneath the granary A, on the ground floor, is
the mill; in the upper story above it, are two pairs of rollers, _fig._
101, 102, and 103, under _a_, _a_, for bruising or crushing the grains
of the malt. In the floor beneath the rollers are the mill-stones _b_,
_b_, where the malt is sometimes ground, instead of being merely bruised
by passing between the rollers, under _a_, _a_.

The malt, when prepared, is conveyed by a trough into a chest _d_, to
the right of _b_, from which it can be elevated by the action of a
spiral screw, _fig._ 105., enclosed in the sloping tube _e_, into the
large chest or binn B, for holding ground malt, situated immediately
over the mash-tun D. The malt is reserved in this binn till wanted, and
it is then let down into the mashing-tun, where the extract is obtained
by hot water supplied from the copper G, seen to the right of B.

The water for the service of the brewery is obtained from the well E,
seen beneath the mill to the left, by a lifting pump worked by the steam
engine; and the forcing-pipe _f_ of this pump conveys the water up to
the large reservoir or water-back F, placed at the top of the
engine-house. From this cistern, iron pipes are laid to the copper G (on
the right-hand side of the figure), as also to every part of the
establishment where cold water can be wanted for cleaning and washing
the vessels. The copper G can be filled with cold water by merely
turning a cock; and the water, when boiled therein, is conveyed by the
pipe _g_ into the bottom of the mash-tun D. It is introduced beneath a
false bottom, upon which the malt lies, and, rising up through the holes
in the false bottom, it extracts the saccharine matter from the malt; a
greater or less time being allowed for the infusion, according to
circumstances. The instant the water is drawn off from the copper, fresh
water must be let into it, in order to be ready for boiling the second
mashing; because the copper must not be left empty for a moment,
otherwise the intense heat of the fire would destroy its bottom. For the
convenience of thus letting down at once as much liquor as will fill the
lower part of the copper, a pan or second boiler is placed over the top
of the copper, as seen in _fig._ 103.; and the steam rising from the
copper communicates a considerable degree of heat to the contents of the
pan, without any expense of fuel. This will be more minutely explained
hereafter. (_See fig._ 107.)

During the process of mashing, the malt is agitated in the mash-tun, so
as to expose every part to the action of the water. This is done by a
mechanism contained within the mash-tun, which is put in motion by a
horizontal shaft above it, H, leading from the mill. The mash machine is
shown separately in _fig._ 106. When the operation of mashing is
finished, the wort or extract is drained down from the malt into the
vessel I, called the _under-back_, immediately below the mash-tun, of
like dimensions, and situated always on a lower level, for which reason
it has received this name. Here the wort does not remain longer than is
necessary to drain off the whole of it from the tun above. It is then
pumped up by the three-barrelled pump _k_, into the pan upon the top of
the copper, by a pipe which cannot be seen in this section. The wort
remains in the pan until the water for the succeeding mashes is
discharged from the copper. But this delay is no loss of time, because
the heat of the copper, and the steam arising from it, prepare the wort,
which had become cooler, for boiling. The instant the copper is emptied,
the first wort is let down from the pan into the copper, and the second
wort is pumped up from the under-back into the upper pan. The proper
proportion of hops is thrown into the copper through the near hole, and
then the door is shut down, and screwed fast, to keep in the steam, and
cause it to rise up through pipes into the pan. It is thus forced to
blow up through the wort in the pan, and communicates so much heat to
it, or water, called _liquor_ by the brewers, that either is brought
near to the boiling point. The different worts succeed each other
through all the different vessels with the greatest regularity, so that
there is no loss of time, but every part of the apparatus is constantly
employed. When the ebullition has continued a sufficient period to
coagulate the grosser part of the extract, and to evaporate part of the
water, the contents of the copper are run off through a large cock into
the _jack-back_ K, below G, which is a vessel of sufficient dimensions
to contain it, and provided with a bottom of cast-iron plates,
perforated with small holes, through which the wort drains and leaves
the hops. The hot wort is drawn off from the jack-back through the pipe
_h_ by the three-barrelled pump, which throws it up to the coolers L, L,
L; this pump being made with different pipes and cocks of communication,
to serve all the purposes of the brewery except that of raising the cold
water from the well. The coolers L, L, L, are very shallow vessels,
built over one another in several stages: and that part of the building
in which they are contained is built with lattice-work or or shutter
flaps, on all sides, to admit free currents of air. When the wort is
sufficiently cooled to be put to the first fermentation, it is conducted
in pipes from all the different coolers to the large fermenting vessel
or gyle-tun M, which, with another similar vessel behind it, is of
sufficient capacity to contain all the beer of one day's brewings.

Whenever the first fermentation is concluded, the beer is drawn off from
the great fermenting vessel M, into the small fermenting casks or
cleansing vessels N, of which there are a great number in the brewery.
They are placed four together, and to each four a common spout is
provided to carry off the yeast, and conduct it into the troughs _n_,
placed beneath. In these cleansing vessels the beer remains till the
fermentation is completed; and it is then put into the store-vats, which
are casks or tuns of an immense size, where it is kept till wanted, and
is finally drawn off into barrels, and sent away from the brewery. The
store-vats are not represented in the figure: they are of a conical
shape, and of different dimensions, from fifteen to twenty feet
diameter, and usually from fifteen to twenty feet in depth. The
steam-engine which puts all the machine in motion is exhibited in its
place, on the left side of the figure. On the axis of the large
fly-wheel is a bevelled spur-wheel, which turns another similar wheel
upon the end of a horizontal shaft, which extends from the engine-house
to the great horse-wheel, set in motion by means of a spur-wheel. The
horse-wheel drives all the pinions for the mill-stones _b_, _b_, and
also the horizontal axis which works the three-barrelled pump _k_. The
rollers _a_, _a_, are turned by a bevel wheel upon the upper end of the
axis of the horse-wheel, which is prolonged for that purpose; and the
horizontal shaft H, for the mashing engine, is driven by a pair of bevel
wheels. There is likewise a sack-tackle, which is not represented. It is
a machine for drawing up the sacks of malt from the court-yard to the
highest part of the building, whence the sacks are wheeled on a truck to
the malt-loft A, and the contents of the sacks are discharged.

The horse-wheel is intended to be driven by horses occasionally, if the
steam-engine should fail; but these engines are now brought to such
perfection that it is very seldom any recourse of this kind is needed.

[Illustration: 104]

_Fig._ 104. is a representation of the _fermenting house_ at the brewery
of Messrs. Whitbread and Company, Chiswell Street, London, which is one
of the most complete in its arrangement in the world: it was erected
after the plan of Mr. Richardson, who conducts the brewing at those
works. The whole of _fig._ 104. is to be considered as devoted to the
same object as the large vessel M and the casks N, _fig._ 103. In _fig._
104., _r r_ is the pipe which leads from the different coolers to convey
the wort to the great fermenting vessels or squares M, of which there
are two, one behind the other; _f f_ represents a part of the great pipe
which conveys all the water from the well E, _fig._ 103, up to the water
cistern F. This pipe is conducted purposely up the wall of the
fermenting-house, _fig._ 104, and has a cock in it, near _r_, to stop
the passage. Just beneath this passage a branch-pipe _p_ proceeds, and
enters a large pipe _x x_, which has the former pipe _r_ withinside of
it. From the end of the pipe _x_, nearest to the squares M, another
branch _n n_ proceeds, and returns to the original pipe _f_, with a cock
to regulate it. The object of this arrangement is to make all, or any
part, of the cold water flow through the pipe _x x_, which surrounds the
pipe _r_, formed only of thin copper, and thus cool the wort passing
through the pipe _r_, until it is found by the thermometer to have the
exact temperature which is desirable before it is put to ferment in the
great square M. By means of the cocks at _n_ and _p_, the quantity of
cold water passing over the surface of the pipe _r_ can be regulated at
pleasure, whereby the heat of the wort, when it enters into the square,
may be adjusted within half a degree.

When the first fermentation in the squares M M is finished, the beer is
drawn off from them by pipes marked _c_, and conducted by its branches W
W W, to the different rows of fermenting-tuns, marked N N, which occupy
the greater part of the building. In the hollow between every two rows
are placed large troughs, to contain the yeast which they throw off. The
figure shows that the small tuns are all placed on a lower level than
the bottom of the great vessels M, so that the beer will flow into them,
and, by hydrostatic equilibrium, will fill them to the same level. When
they are filled, the communication-cock is shut; but, as the working off
the yeast diminishes the quantity of beer in each vessel, it is
necessary to replenish them from time to time. For this purpose, the two
large vats O O are filled from the great squares M M, before any beer is
drawn off into the small casks N, and this quantity of beer is reserved
at the higher level for filling up. The two vessels O O are, in reality,
situated between the two squares M M; but I have been obliged to place
them thus in the section, in order that they may be seen. Near each
filling-up tun O is a small cistern _t_ communicating with the tun O by
a pipe, which is closed by a float-valve. The small cisterns _t_ are
always in communication with the pipes which lead to the small
fermenting vessels N; and therefore the surface of the beer in all the
tuns, and in the cisterns, will always be at the same level; and as this
level subsides by the working off of the yeast from the tuns, the float
sinks and opens the valve, so as to admit a sufficiency of beer from the
filling-up tuns O, to restore the surfaces of the beer in all the tuns,
